Anti-Ragging Compendium (2024-25)
NIT HAMIRPUR REGULATIONS
TO CURB THE MENACE OF RAGGING
(Session 2024-25)
OUR VISION
“To build a vibrant multicultural learning environment founded on value
based academic principles, wherein all involved shall contribute
effectively, efficiently and responsibly to the nation and global
community.”
Message from the Director
At the outset, | extend warm welcome to the new entrants to National Institute of
Technology, Hamirpur (Himachal Pradesh). The institution has carved a niche for itself
amongst the top ranking institutes of the country by making big strides along multiple
dimensions. The Vision and Mission statement of the Institute is true manifestation what
we venture to achieve in our day to day working at NIT Hamirpur. The quality of our
students in the market is a clear depiction of our untiring and exhaustive efforts. The
availability of best possible resources, including human resource, to the students is our top
priority. Our experienced, qualified and motivated faculty has proved its excellence in
achieving the assigned goal.

In the current phase of total urbanized atmosphere the NIT Hamirpur Campus is like
a breath of fresh air in the lap of lush green pine trees and has picturesque view of
Dhauladhar mountain ranges. All this provides excellent academic ambience and living
environment. It is totally a ragging free campus and the Institute has developed an
environment of zero tolerance of ragging with the active support of faculty, administration
and the student body, in keeping with the requisite norms. My sincere advice to new
entrants is to enjoy the beautiful campus environment of NIT Hamirpur and make best use
of the facilities provided for their welfare. Under no circumstances a student is supposed to
indulge in any unlawful activity during his/her stay, and any such case will not be tolerated.
The publication of NIT Hamirpur regulations to curb the menace of ragging is a unique
storehouse of information on the directives issued by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India,
the MHRD, as well as actions taken by the Institute in this regard.

| hope that the students will spend their valuable time productively, shape their
career excellently, uphold the ideals of good learning, value the pursuit of merit imbibed in
the annals of the institute and earn laurels for themselves, their families and the institution.

Prof. Hiralal Murlidhar Suryawanshi
Director, NIT Hamirpur
Message from the Dean (Student Welfare)

| wish to congratulate the parents of the students admitted to NIT Hamirpur for deciding and choosing to
study in the beautiful campus of NIT Hamirpur. It is the hard work of these newcomers, that has led them
to get admitted in one of the most sought NITs i.e. NIT Hamirpur.

The Student Welfare section looks after the welfare of students in the Institute, their conduct, discipline,
seriousness to studies, health, scholarships, functioning of Hostels, promoting corporate community living
and self-management including management of kitchen, mess and dining hall through team of wardens
and chief wardens, NCC and NSS programmes , coordination through Fl{student activities) for Literary
activities, Cultural activities, technical activities, entrepreneurial activities, sports, games etc. organized by
various Societies for all round personality development of students etc.

We provide ample opportunities to our students for developing extracurricular skills. The Institute has a
large sports ground, an open air theatre, indoor sports facilities, Lawn Tennis, Billiard and Gymnasium
separate for girl & boy students. The Institute houses 11 hostels including 4 hostels for girls.

NIT Hamirpur is a ragging free campus providing 0% tolerance on the issue. It is my sincere request to the
parents of students to advise their wards not to indulge in ragging directly or indirectly. For the
convenience of the students anti-ragging hoardings are displayed in the campus at all the sensitive
locations displaying the mobile numbers of all the institute authorities and district administration to curb the
menace of ragging inside the institute. The students must report any ragging incidence to the hostel staff
(mess attendants, mess manager, hostel wardens) or to Chief Warden/ Dean (SW). The Institute has put
the flying squads on duty in the hostels to curb the menace of ragging. An empowered Anti-ragging
Committee has been constituted as per UGC guidelines to take strict action in case any student is found
involved in ragging activity. The students are requested not to hide such incidences, which may lead to
exponential rise in ragging cases. On behalf of the NIT Hamirpur, | once again urge the senior students
not to indulge in such activities.

Dr. Ashok Kumar

Dean (Student Welfare)
NIT Hamirpur
INDEX

Sr.No. Particulars Page No.
1. Title, commencement and _ applicability 1
2. Objective 1
3. Definitions 1
4. Punishable ingredients of ragging 2
5. Measures for prohibition of ragging 2
6. Measures for prevention of ragging 2
6.1 Before Admissions 2
6.2 On admission 4
6.3 At the end of Academic year 4
6.4 Setting up of the committee and their functions
6.5 Other measures 4
6.6 Measures for encouraging healthy interaction between 5

fresher’s and seniors. i
6.7 Measures at the NIT-H/Statutory/ Regulatory bodies

level. i
7, Punishments i
8. Final Appellate Authority 8
9. Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee 8
10. Anti -Ragging Flying Squad 9
11. Anti-Ragging Committees 9
12. Affidavit by 10

I) Student and
Il) Parents/ Guardians

1.

NIT HAMIRPUR REGULATIONS
TO CURB THE MENACE OF RAGGING

In exercise of the power conferred by NIT Act, 2007, the National Institute of Technology,
Hamirpur, H.P., India hereby makes the following Regulations, namely NIT Hamirpur Regulations to
Curb the Menace of Ragging -

Title, commencement and applicability:-

1.1... These regulations shall be called the “NIT HAMIRPUR Regulations to Curb the Menace
of Ragging”.

1.2. These Regulations shall come into force with immediate effect.

1.3. These Regulations shall be applied within the campus area of NIT Hamirour (academic,
residential, sports, canteen or other shops available in the campus) or outside and to all
means of transportation of students provided by NIT, Govt. or private.

Objective:-

To root out ragging in all its forms from the Institute by prohibiting it by law, preventing its

occurrence by following the provisions of these Regulations and punishing those who indulge in
ragging in spite of prohibition and prevention as provided for in these Regulations and the
appropriate law in force.

Definitions (For the purposes of these Regulations):-

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

“Institute” means National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur (HP)-177 005 established
under NIT Act 2007.

“Institute” also means a Technical Institute imparting Technical Education leading to
Undergraduate, Postgraduate or Ph.D and other such courses as may be started by NIT,
Hamirpur from time to time.

“Head of the Institute” means the ‘Director’ NIT, Hamirpur (HP)

“Ragging” means the following:

“Any disorderly conduct whether by words spoken or written or by an act which
has the effect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness any fresher, indulging in
rowdy or indiscipline activity which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship or
psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension thereof in a fresher or a junior student
or asking the students to do any act or perform something which such student will not do
in the ordinary course and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of
shame or embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of a fresher or
a junior student.”

Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee.

Anti-Ragging Squad.
6.1

Punishable ingredients of Ragging:-

Abetment to ragging;

Criminal conspiracy to rag;

Unlawful assembly and rioting while ragging;

Public nuisance created during ragging;

Violation of decency and morals through ragging;

Injury to body, causing hurt or grievous hurt;

 Wrongful restraint;

 Wrongful confinement;

Use of criminal force;

Assault as well as sexual offences or even unnatural offences;
Extortion;

Criminal trespass;

+ Offences against property;

Criminal intimidation;

Attempts to commit any or all of the above mentioned offences against the victim(s);
All other offences following from the definition of “Ragging’.

Measures for prohibition of Ragging:-

5.1

5.2

5.3

The Institute shall strictly observe the provisions of these Regulations of the institute in
addition to provisions made by Centre or State Governments, if any, or if enacted,
considering ragging as a cognizable offence under the law on at par with rape and other
atrocities against women and ill-treatment of persons belonging to the SC/ST, and
prohibiting ragging in all its forms in NIT, Hamirpur.

Ragging in all its forms shall be totally banned in the entire Institute, including its
departments, constituent units, all its premises (academic, residential, sports, canteen,
other shops etc) whether located within the campus or outside and in all means of
transportation of students whether NIT, public or private.

The Institute shall take strict action against those found guilty of ragging and/or of abetting
ragging.

Measures for prevention of Ragging:-

The Institute has to take the following measures:

Before Admissions:-

6.1.1

6.1.2

The advertisement for admissions shall clearly mention that ragging is totally banned in
the Institute, and anyone found guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging is liable to be
punished appropriately (for punishments, ref. section 7 below).

The Institute shall prepare the brochure of admission/instruction booklet for candidates
and shall print in block letters these Regulations in full (including Annexures).
6.1.3

6.1.4

6.1.5

6.1.6

6.1.7

6.1.8

6.1.9

6.1.10

6.1.11

The Institute shall incorporate all directions in admission related documents as per
directions of the Supreme Court and /or the Central or State Governments as applicable,
so that the candidates and their parents/ guardians are sensitized in respect of the
prohibition and consequences of ragging.

At the time of admission/enrolment, the candidate shall necessarily submit an
Undertaking to the Institute to the effect that he/she is aware of the law regarding
prohibition of ragging as well as the punishments, and that he/she, if found guilty of the
offence of ragging and/or abetting ragging, is liable to be punished appropriately.

The parents of the candidate shall also necessarily submit an Undertaking to the Institute
to the effect that he/she is aware of the law in this regard and agrees to abide by the
punishment meted out to his/ her ward in case the latter is found guilty of ragging and/or
abetting ragging.

The NIT, Hamirpur shall obtain all the documents from the students at the time of
admission such as School Leaving Certificate, Character Certificate which shall include a
report on the behavioral pattern of the applicant, so that the Institute can thereafter keep
intense watch upon a student who has a negative entry in this regard.

A student while submitting application for hostel accommodation to the Warden of the
concerned hostel, shall have to submit another Undertaking for not indulging in any kind
of ragging activities.

The Institute is to make the community at large and the students in particular aware of the
dehumanizing effect of ragging, and the approach of the Institute towards those indulging
in ragging. Big posters (preferably multicolored with different colors for the provisions of
law, punishments, etc.) shall be prominently displayed on all Notice Boards of all
departments, hostels and other buildings as well as at vulnerable places. Some of such
posters shall be of permanent nature in certain vulnerable places.

The Institute shall identify, properly illuminate and man all vulnerable locations.

The Institute shall tighten security in its premises, especially at the vulnerable places. If
necessary, intense policing shall be resorted to at such points at odd hours during initial
period of the academic session.

The faculties/departments/units of the Institute shall have induction arrangements
(including those which anticipate, identify and plan to meet any special needs of any
specific section of students) in place, well in advance before the beginning of the
academic session with a clear sense of the aims and objectives of the induction process.
6.2 On Admission:-

6.2.1

6.2.2

6.2.3

6.2.4

6.2.5

6.2.6

Every fresher admitted to the Institute shall be provided detailed information on the
Institute website detailing when and to whom he/she has to turn to for help and guidance
for various purposes (including Wardens, Head of the Institute, members of the anti-
ragging committees, relevant district and police authorities), addresses and telephone
numbers of such persons/authorities etc., so that the fresher need not to look up to the
seniors for help in such matters and get indebted to them and start doing things, right or
wrong, at their behest. Such a step will reduce the fresher’s dependence on their seniors.

The Institute through the booklet mentioned above shall explain to the new entrants the
arrangements for their induction and orientation which promote efficient and effective
means of integrating them fully as students.

The booklet mentioned above shall also tell the fresher’s about their rights as bonafide
students of the Institute and clearly instruct them that they should desist from doing
anything against their will even if ordered by the seniors, and that they have nothing to
fear as the Institute cares for them and shall not tolerate any atrocities against them.

The booklet mentioned above shall contain a calendar of events and activities laid down
by the Institute to facilitate and complement familiarization of juniors with the academic
environment of the Institute.

The Institute shall also organize joint sensitization programmes of fresher’s and seniors.

Fresher’s shall be encouraged to report incidents of ragging, either as victims, or even as
witnesses.

6.3 At the end of the Academic Year:-

6.3.1

At the end of every Academic Year, the Director/Dean (Student Welfare) will inform the
parents/guardians whose wards are completing first year about the law regarding ragging
& the punishments and appealing them to impress upon their wards to desist from
indulging in ragging when they come back at the beginning of the next academic session.

6.4. Setting up of Committees and their functions:-

6.4.1

6.4.2

The Anti-Ragging Empowered Comimittee:- The Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee
shall be headed by the Dean(Student Welfare) and shall consist of Faculty In-charge
(Training & Placement), Wardens of concerned hostel, Chief Warden(Hostels), Associate
Dean (Student Discipline & Counselling) & Faculty In-charge (Student Discipline). It shall
consider the recommendations of the Anti-Ragging committee and take appropriate
decisions, including spelling out suitable punishments to those found guilty.

The Anti-Ragging Flying Squad:- The Anti-Ragging Flying Squad shall consist of at least
two faculty members at the institution level. It will have surprise visits in the campus &
ensure that duties assigned to the anti-ragging committees are properly executed.
6.4.3

6.4.4

The Anti-Ragging Committee:- The Anti-Ragging committee shall be headed by a faculty
member with such representation as considered necessary and shall consist of members
belonging to the various sections of the campus community. These committees will have
to be vigilant, overseeing and patrolling functions. These committees shall be mobile, alert
and active at all times during their assigned duty hours and shall be empowered to
inspect places of potential ragging. Any ragging incident will be reported to the Member
Secretary of Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee.

Counselling Cell on Ragging:- The counselling cell shall advise students for maintaining
discipline and conduct so as to avoid being liable to punishment under these regulations.

6.5 Other measures:-

6.5.1

6.5.2

6.5.3

6.5.4

6.5.5

6.5.6

6.5.7

6.5.8

The Annexure mentioned in 6.1.4, 6.1.5 and 6.1.7 shall be furnished at the beginning of
each academic year by every student, that is, by fresher’s as well as seniors, to the Dean
Academic of this Institute.

The Chief Warden (Hostels) involving all Wardens of the concerned hostels shall
arrange for regular and periodic psychological counseling and orientation for students (for
fresher's separately, as well as jointly with seniors) during the first three months of the
new academic year at hostel level. The Head of the concerned department shall also do it
at the departments/course level by involving senior students and teachers.

The Warden of concerned hostels with the approval of Chief Warden (Hostels) of this
Institute shall arrange the posters mentioned in 6.1.8 above at strategic places and shall
also undertake measures for extensive publicity against ragging by means of audio-visual
aids, by holding counselling sessions, workshops, painting and design competitions
among students and other methods as it deems fit.

These regulations shall be applicable to all students studying under UG/PG or Ph.D
programmes at NIT Hamirpur.

The security personnel posted at hostels shall be under the direct control of the
concerned Wardens and assessed by them.

These regulations shall be applicable both for Institute's hostels as well as private
properties, if any, hired for hostel purposes.

The Registrar of the Institute shall take immediate action on receipt of the
recommendations of the  Anti-Ragging Committee/Anti-Ragging empowered
committee/Anti-Ragging flying squad. He/ She shall also take action suo motto if the
circumstances so warrant.

The Institute shall take strict action against the fresher’s who do not report the incidents of
ragging either as victims or as witnesses, and they shall also be punished suitably.
6.5.9

6.5.10

6.5.11

6.5.12

6.5.13

6.5.14

The Director of the Institute alongwith Anti-ragging flying squad may conduct random
surveys across the 1s year batch of students (fresher’s) periodically during the first three
months of the academic year to verify and cross-check whether the campus is indeed free
of ragging or not.

The Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee shall ensure that the burden of proof lies on the
perpetrator of ragging and not on the victim.

Every single incident of ragging where the victim or his parent/guardian or the
Director/Registrar of NIT Hamirpur is not satisfied with the institutional arrangement for
action, a First Information Report must be filed without exception by the Registrar, NIT
Hamirpur with the local police authorities. Any failure on the part of the institutional authority
or negligence or deliberate delay in lodging the FIR with the local police shall be construed
to be an act of culpable negligence on the part of the institutional authority. If any victim of
ragging, or his parent/guardian, intends to file an FIR directly with the police, that will not
absolve the institutional authority from the requirement of filing the FIR.

The Dean Academic of this Institute shall be held responsible to verify the Migration /
Transfer Certificate issued to the students entry, apart from those relating to general
conduct and behavior, whether the student has been punished for the offence of committing
or abetting ragging, or not, as also whether the student has displayed persistent violent or
aggressive behavior or any desire to harm others, in his earlier school or Institution.

All the Employees (Faculty, Supporting staff and Administrative staff) and sections of
authorities or functionaries of the Institute shall have collective responsibility at all levels,
and not merely the specific bocy/committees constituted for prevention of ragging for
keeping the campus Ragging Free.

The Member Secretary of the Anti-ragging Empowered Committee through its Chairperson
shall report to the Director/Registrar in case any incident is reported in the campus or
outside the campus/transportation etc. immediately.

6.5.15 The Warden of concerned hostel, Head of the department concerned and In-charge Central

Library shall ensure that access to mobile phones and public phones shall be unrestricted
in hostels and campuses, except in class-rooms, seminar halls, library or other such places
as the institute notifies from time to time.
6.6

6.7

Measures for encouraging healthy interaction between fresher’s and seniors:-

6.6.1

6.6.2

6.6.3

The Chief Warden (Hostels) and the Head of the Departments shall be responsible to set
up appropriate committees during the starting of academic year by including the Course
In-charge, Student Advisor, Warden and some senior students to actively monitor,
promote and regulate healthy interaction between the fresher’s and senior students.

Head of all Departments shall be responsible for organizing freshers welcome parties in
each department by the senior students and the faculty together for proper introduction to
one another and where the talents of the fresher’s are brought out properly in the
presence of the faculty, thus helping them to shed their inferiority complex, if any, and
remove their inhibitions.

The Director shall be empowered to enhance the student-faculty interaction by involving
the students in all matters of the Institute, except those relating to the actual processes of
valuation and of faculty appointments, so that the students shall feel that they are
responsible partners in managing the affairs of the Institute and consequently the credit
due to the Institute for good work/ performance is due to them as well.

Measures at the NITH/ Statutory/ Regulatory bodies’ level:-

6.7.1

6.7.2

The Dean (Academic) & Chief Warden (Hostels) of the Institute shall be working as
Statutory/Regulatory bodies to make it mandatory for the Institutes to compulsorily
incorporate in ‘Prospectus’ the directions of the Supreme Court and/or the Central or
State Governments with regard to prohibition and consequences of ragging.

The Deputy Registrar (Finance & Accounts) of the Institute shall ensure that at the time of
submitting the Utilization Certificates that the conditions in the Utilization for sanctioning
any financial assistance or aid to the Institute under any of the general or special
schemes that the Institute has strictly complied with the anti-ragging measures and has a
blemish-less record in terms of there being no incidents of ragging during the period
pertaining to the Utilization Certificate.

Punishments:-

Depending upon the nature and gravity of the offence as established by the Anti-Ragging

Committee of the Institute, the possible punishments for those found guilty of ragging at the
Institute level shall be any one or any combination of the following:-

74
7.2
73
74
75
76

77
78
79

Cancellation of admission

Suspension from attending classes

Withholding/ withdrawing scholarship/ fellowship and other benefits

Debarring from appearing in any test/ examination or other evaluation process.
Withholding results

Debarring from representing the Institute in any regional, national or International meets,
tournament, youth festival, etc.

Suspension/expulsion from the hostel

Rustication from the Institute for a period ranging from 1 to 4 semesters

Expulsion from the Institute and consequent debarring from admission to any other
Institute
7.10 Fine of upto Rs. 25,000/-

7.11. Collective punishment: When the persons committing or abetting the crime of ragging are
not identified, the Institute shall resort to collective punishment as a deterrent to ensure
community pressure on the potential raggers.

8. Final Appellate authority:-

8.1. The Director, NIT, Hamirpur shall be final appellate authority.

8.2 The Director of the Institute shall be competent to make any addition or any alteration in
the NIT, Hamirpur Regulations to curb the menace of ragging.

8.3 The Director shall be fully competent to make any addition or alteration in the proposed
anti-ragging Empowered Committee, Anti-ragging Flying squad and _ anti-ragging
committees.

9. Anti-Ragging Empowered Committee

Under the “NIT Hamirpur Regulations on Curbing the Menace of Ragging” in the institute,
Anti Ragging Empowered Committee is hereby constituted of the following members:-

Dean (Student Welfare) Chairperson
Associate Dean (Student Discipline & Counseling) Member

Chief Warden (Hostels) Member

Faculty In-charge (Training & Placement) Member
Concerned HoD/HoC Members

Warden of Concerned Hostel Member

Faculty In-charge (Student Discipline) Member Secretary

The Empowered committee shall exercise full powers to take decision as per provisions made
under this regulation for curbing the menace of ragging in National Institute of Technology Hamirpur
(Himachal Pradesh) by punishing the defaulting student as it deems fit.
10. Anti-Ragging Flying Squad

Under the NIT Hamirpur Regulations on curbing the menace of ragging in the Institute, Anti-
Ragging Flying Squads are hereby constituted of the following members:-

S.No. |Name of Faculty Members Period

1. Dr. R K Sharma, Professor, DoCE 10/08/2024 to 19/08/2024 &
Dr. R.N. Sharma, Professor, DoEE 09/09/2024 to 18/09/2024

2. Dr. Y.D.Sharma, Professor, DoMSC 20/08/2024 to 29/08/2024 &
Dr. R.K. Dutta, Professor, DoCE 19/09/2024 to 28/09/2024

3. Dr. Sunand Kumar , Professor, DoME 30/08/2024 to 08/09/2024 &
Dr. Ashwani Chandel, Professor, DoEE 29/09/2024 to 08/10/2024

4. Dr. Sushil Chauhan , Professor, DoEE 09/10/2024 to 18/10/2024 &
Dr. Sunil, Professor, DoMSC 08/11/2024 to 19/11/2024

5, Dr. Rajeevan Chandel, Professor, DoECE 19/10/2024 to 28/10/2024 &
Dr. Minakshi Jain, Professor, DoOARCH 20/1 1/2024 to 30/11/2024

6. Dr. Yog Raj Sood, Professor (HAG), DoEE —_ {29/10/2024 to 07/11/2024 &
Dr. Bhanu Marwaha, Professor, DoARCH 01/12/2024 to 12/12/2024

The Flying Squads will conduct surprise visits to prominent places in the institute as per their
convenience to root out the menace of ragging in any form and to ensure that the members of Anti-
Ragging Committees are doing their assigned duties properly. If any case related to ragging is observed,
the Flying Squad shall immediately investigate the incident of ragging and take necessary corrective
action immediately with a copy of the report to the Director/Registrar.

11. Anti-Ragging Committees:

Dean (Student Welfare) alongwith Chief Warden (Hostels) shall make Anti Ragging Committees
and distribute the same to all concerned well in advance and also display the same at prominent places
for information of all. The constituted committees shall remain mobile, vigilant and active during the
assigned duty time and are empowered to inspect potential places of ragging. If any case related to
ragging is observed, the committee shall immediately investigate the incident of ragging and take
necessary corrective action immediately and submit its findings to the Chairperson, Anti Ragging
Empowered Committee for further necessary action, if necessary.

The Assistant Wardens and Wardens of the concerned hostels are advised to remain vigilant and
take necessary corrective action immediately if any case related to ragging is observed and also submit its
report to the Chief Warden. Further, the Chief Warden will submit the consolidated report to the
Chairperson, Anti Ragging Empowered Committee immediately for further necessary action.
In case any member of the Anti-ragging Committee, Anti-Ragging Flying Squad, Anti Ragging
Empowered Committee, Warden or Chief Warden hides any information relating to ragging and later on is
pointed out by any student or other members or parents of the students alongwith relevant evidence(s),
then the concerned person will be held responsible and suitable disciplinary action will be initiated against
him/her.

If any security personnel is not found vigilant during duty hours by Anti-Ragging Committee /Anti
Ragging Flying Squad either near the hostels or within the campus area, strict action against him shall be
taken as per law. Such slackness shall be considered as breach of contract and action of replacement
shall be initiated in such cases immediately.

To the effect that the candidate & his/her parents are aware of the law regarding prohibition of
ragging as well as the punishments, and that he/she, if found guilty of the offence of ragging and/or
abetting ragging, is liable to be punished appropriately, the following Affidavits’ Undertakings (print out of
form filled up online and signed by the candidate/parents) are required to be submitted at the time of
admission/enrolment:

|. AFFIDAVIT BY THE STUDENT
Il. AFFIDAVIT BY PARENT/GUARDIAN

Both the above Affidavits/Undertakings are required to be filled up on website given below:-

WWW.AMANMOVEMENT.ORG

The format of affidavits are also available at page no 23 and 24 of
https://nith.ac.in/uploads/topics/newhostelbooklet16442132433008. pdf

The below are the important phone numbers to report ragging related matters:

S.No. | Name & Designation Phone No Mobile No.

1 Prof. Hiralal Murlidhar Suryawanshi, Director | 01972-254001 9423682753
2 Dr. Archana Santosh Nanoty, Registrar 01972-254010 7046005844
3 Dr. Ashok Kumar, Dean (SW) 01972-254008 9418083138
4 Dr. S.K.Soni, Associate Dean(SD&C) 01972-254630 9418058885
5 Dr. Varun, Chief Warden (Hostels) 01972-254736 9882452135
6 Dr. T. Ganesh, Warden, Kailash Boys Hostel | 01972-254146 9966117530
t Dr. Rita Maurya, Warden, Ambika Girls Hostel | 01972-254154 9026203730
8 Dr. Mani Verma, Senior Medical Officer, NITH | 01972-254690 9882326009
] Shri Bhagat Singh Thakur, IPS SP-Hamirpur | 01972-292175 9805404111

10
RAGGING BEING A COGNIZABLE OFFENCE AND SOCIALMALAISE IS
TOTALLY PROHIBITED IN THE INSTITUTE.
