National Institute of Technology Hamirpur
Students Conduct and Discipline Code

1. Preface

This Code is called as National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Students Conduct and Discipline Code. This
contains provisions to lay down appropriate rules and regulations to enforce discipline in the Campus which shall be
binding on all the students studying in the Institute. This shall come into force from the date on which the SENATE/
competent authority resolves to implement this Code.

2; Objectives

Rational Institute of Technology Hamirpur affirms that the students along with their sound domain subject knowledge
must also have exemplary professional attitude with the highest ethical values. Institute believes in treating its students
like young adults having responsible behaviour. In general, most of the students find life orderly and pleasant in the
Campus. However, they are also expected to maintain order and discipline in the Campus facilitating fulfilment of the
objectives of the Institute. Rules and regulations are therefore meant to mark the contours of this needed order and
discipline. It is necessary that the Institute should cultivate higher values of honesty, integrity, responsibility, mutual
respect for persons and property and respect for human rights among its students. In order to achieve this, the student
community should necessarily practice these values and see that the rules envisaged in this Code are strictly adhered
to.

3. Applicability of the Code
The students should conduct themselves both inside and outside the Campus in a manner that is befitting an Institute

of National importance. The Code shall be applicable to all the students admitted to the Institute and including any
academic programme, activity or event conducted by the Institute. It is the responsibility and duty of each and every
student to become acquainted with all the provisions of the Code. It is presumed that every student from the date of
his/her admission to the Institute to any academic programme/activity/event has knowledge of this Code. All students
coming within the above categories are required to strictly adhere to this Code as a condition of their admission to the
Institute and this Code would be binding and enforceable on them.

4. Responsibilities of the Students
It shall be the responsibility of the students to

i Become familiar with and adhere to this Code and subsequent amendments, if any.

ii. Behave and conduct themselves in the Institute Campus, hostels and premises in a dignified manner and show
due respect and courtesy to the faculty members, administrators, officers and employees of the Institute, and
good neighbourly behaviour to fellow students.

il. Pay due attention and courtesy to visitors to the Institute and residents of the Campus.

iv. Foster and maintain a vibrant academic, intellectual, cultural and social atmosphere which is consistent with the
objectives of the Institute.

v. Access all educational opportunities and benefits available at the Institute and make good use of them to
prosper academically and develop scientific temper.

vi. Respect the laws of the country, human rights and to conduct in a responsible and dignified manner at all times.

vi. Follow decent and formal dressing manners.

vii. | Report any violation of this Code to the authorities.

5. Behaviour of the Students

i, Groupism of any kind that would distort the harmony is not permitted.

ii. A student is required to carry Identity Card issued by the Institute all the times and must produce the same as
and when asked by the authorities.

ii. | Students are expected to spend their free time in the Library/Computer Centre/Playfieid. They shall not jolter
along the galleries or crowd in front of F offices or the Campus roads. They should refrai

MB pa LX

»@

vi.
vii.
viii.

xi.

xii.

xiii.

xiv.
XV.

xvi.
xvii.

xviii.

xix.
XX.

xxi.
xxii.

xxiii.
xxiv.

XXV.

places such as parapets, stairs, footpaths, etc.

Institute Campus is a “Smoking Free and Alcohol Free Campus". Possession or consumption of narcotic drugs,
tobacco, alcohol and other intoxicating substances are strictly prohibited in the Campus and hostels.

Silence shall be maintained in the premises of the Institute.

Students are not permitted to use mobile phones in the Lecture/Examination Halls, Laboratories, etc.

Students shall not indulge in any undesirable activity and shall maintain highest standard of discipline.

Students shall refrain from all activities considered as ragging which is a criminal offence.

Students are prohibited from indulging in anti-institutional, anti-national, anti-social, communal, immoral or
political expressions activities within the Campus and hostels.

Politically connected students and other organizations or outfits are not allowed in the Campus. Students are
strictly prohibited from organizing, attending or participating in any activity or agitation sponsored by politically
based organizations.

Students shall not deface, disfigure, damage or destroy or cause any loss in any manner to or regarding public,
private or Institute properties.

Unauthorized entry of outsiders into the Campus as well as in hostels is strictly prohibited. Without specific
permission of the authorities, students shall not bring outsiders to the Institute or hostels. Also, un-authorised
entry/ exit by the students from the Institute Campus is strictly prohibited

No one shall bring, distribute or circulate unauthorized notices, pamphlets, leaflets, banners, flags, etc. within
the Campus or hostels. The possession, distribution or exhibition of any item by any means which is per se
obscene is prohibited within the Campus.

No student shall collect money either by request or by coercion from others within the Campus or hostels.

The Institute being a place of learning and an exclusive academic zone, nobody shall respond to any call for any
form of strike, procession or agitation including slogan shouting, dharna, gherao, buming in effigy or indulge in
anything which may harm the peaceful atmosphere of the Institution and shall eschew from violence in the .
Campus and hostels and even outside.

No student shall exert undue influence on fellow students.

Possession or usage of weapons, explosives or anything that causes injury/damage to the life and limb or body
of any human being or property is prohibited.

Possession or usage of motorized vehicle by the students in the Campus is prohibited. Exceptions are made for
QIP students, sponsored students, PwD students and defence “— through specific prior permission from
Dean (Student Welfare).

No student shall enter or leave the classroom when the session is on without the permission of the teacher.
Students charged with criminal offence or under suspension shall not enter the Institute Campus without the
permission of the competent authority.

Any case of criminal activity or violation of law and order in the Institute Campus will be reported to the police.
Students shall only use the waste bins for dispensing waste materials within the Campus including classrooms,
hostels, offices, canteen and messes.
Any conduct which leads to lowering of the esteem of the Institute is prohibited.

No student of the Institute should directly approach the Director/ Institute higher authority and/or on-line media,
orint or electronic and/or chat groups for redressal of any complaint or grievance of which he is aggrieved of,
rather students of Institute must follow the proper channel for this purpose, which has been outlined below.
Further, the students of the Institute are not allowed to use Twitter, Facebook, and WhatsApp for any matter that
will bring down the prestige/dignity of the individual(s)/ the Institute. Also students are not allowed to record any
call/meeting/conversation/activity taking place with the Institute authority/functionary, without the
consent/permission of Institute Authority. :
A proper student's grievances redressal mechanism is in place, for which B.Tech. students must approach or
submit his grievances to the concemed HOD, M. Tech. students must approach or submit their grievances to the
concemed HOD through their dissertation supervisor and through HOD if dissertation supervisor is not appointed.
All Ph. D. students must approach or submit their grievances to their thesis supervisors and thesis supervisor
should forward the same to the HOD. Approaching directly to any other Institution Authority or any of the other
means as mentioned in clause 5.xxiv will be considered as an act of indiscipline.

6. Disciplinary Penalties/ Sanctions
Any student exhibiting prohibited behaviour mentioned in this Code shall, depending upon the gravity of the misconduct

or its recurrence be subjected to any of the following disciplinary sanctions. Any student who is persistently
insubordinate, repeatedly or wilfully mischievous, guilty of fraud or malpractice in connection with examinations or who
in the opinion of the competent authority, is likely pee unwholesome influence on his/her fellow students, may be

Lo

ee

suspended/ expelled from hostel/ Institute temporarily or removed from the rolls permanently.

A. Minor Sanctions

i. Warning or Reprimand: This is the least sanction envisaged in this Code. The student engaged in any prohibited
behaviour first time will be reprimanded/ issued a warning letter.

ii. Tendering Apology: The student engaged in any prohibited behaviour may be asked to tender an apology for
his/her act, undertaking that he/she shall not indulge in such or any of the prohibited behaviour in future.

iii. Disciplinary Probation: Any prohibitory behaviour may also invite imposition of disciplinary probation for a
semester/ higher duration.

iv. Minor Financial Penalty: A defaulter student(s) may be subjected to financial penalty up to the maximum amount
of Rs 10,000/- depending upon gravity of the offence.

B. Major Sanctions

i. Debarring from Institute Placement: A student/group of students may be debarred from participation in Institute
olacement related activities for a specific period/ entire period.

ii. Major Financial Penalty: A defaulter student(s) may be subjected to financial penalty by the BOD of the Institute
up to the maximum amount of Rs 50,000/- depending upon gravity of the offence.

iii, Debarring from Examinations: A student/group of students may be debarred from writing all/any/some of the
examinations, which forms part of the academic programme for which he/she/they has/have joined.

iv. Restitution: Restitution implies reimbursement in terms of money and/or services to compensate for personal
injury or loss, damage/disfiguration to property of the Institute or any property kept in the premises of the Institute
in any manner. The students/group of students may be asked to compensate for the loss that has been caused to
any person or property of the Institute or any property kept in the premises of the Institute due to the act of
vandalisrn perpetrated by the students. The students/group of students shall also be liable to put in their service to
restore any loss or damage caused to any property and thereby bringing it to its original form.

v.  Ferfeiture: Caution deposit of any student engaged in any prohibited behaviour shall be forfeited.

vi. Suspension: A student may be suspended from the Institute for a specified period for violation of any of the
orovisions of this Code. The period of suspension and conditions, if any, shall be ciearly indicated in the
communication addressed to the student. The student shall lose his/her attendance for the suspension period.

vil. Expulsion: This is the extreme form of disciplinary action and shall be resorted to only in cases where stringent
action is warranted. Expulsion may be for a period of one semester/ one year or the permanent dismissal of a
student from the Institute.

7. Functionaries Under the Code

i. Head of the Department/Functionaries/Chief Warden/Wardens of Hostels
The respective functionaries of all Teaching Departments and Hostels shall have the power and duty to take immediate

remedial action to curb any prohibitory behaviour as envisaged under this Code. All minor offences shall be dealt by the
conceined HOD/ Warden! Chief Warden in their respective premises. The HoD/Chief Warden/Warden shall have the
power to impose minor sanctions as envisaged under Section 6(A) of this Code. They can also recommend imposition
of major sanctions as envisaged under Section 6(B) of this Code to the Director through Dean (SW). The
HoD/Functionary/Chief Warden/Wardens while taking any action as envisaged in the Code shall do so in an impartial
manner and see to it that the sanction imposed/proposed is commensurate with the gravity of the prohibited behaviour.
Any maior violation of this Code by an individual or by a group of students can be referred to the Dean(SW) by any
teacher/ other functionary of the Institute.

ii. Dean (Student Welfare)
Dean (SW) or any duly authorised person of the Institute shall have the powers to visitfinspect any premises, buildings

or any property of the Institute when there is a genuine doubt that any act of prohibited behaviour is taking place and
can take any lawful actions to curb such behaviour. The HoDs/Functionaries/Chief Warden/Wardens shall report fo the
Dean (Student Welfare) any instances of prohibited behaviour, who in tum shall bring it to the notice of the Director.

he Dean (Student We! fare) can also take suomoto actions against any student/students indulging in prohibited
behaviour, if situation demands may constitute pe a to enquire the matter. Any major violation of the Code by «

Al 3 mt

‘<p

student or group of students can be referred by the Director to a Board of Discipline (BOD). Constitution of the Board of
Discipline (BOD) shall be as under:

1._| Dean (Student Welfare) Chairperson
2. | Chief Warden (Hostel) Member
_3.__| Concerned HoD Member
4. _, Concerned Warden Member
| 5. | Associate Dean Dealing with Student Discipline and Counseling, if Member
|__| any
6. | Deputy Registrar/Assistant Registrar of the Student Section Convener

ili. Director

The Director shall be the ultimate authority in imposing major sanctions as envisaged under Section 6(B) against the
Students for acts of prohibited behaviour, he may refer back any matter to BOD for review. The Chairman Senate can
entertain any appeal from any student/students aggrieved by the action of any authority of the Institute and decide the
case on merit.

In very exceptional circumstances, the Director may appoint a special committee to investigate and/or recommend
appropriate action for any act of gross indiscipline involving an individual or a group of students, which, in his/her view,
may tarnish the image of the Institute. In such cases, the recommendation for any action, including expulsion of a
student from the Institute, shall be referred to the Senate for its final decision.

8. Right to Appeal

The student/students aggrieved by the action of any authority of the Institute under or subordinate to the Director can
appeal to the Director and any student aggrieved by the action of the Director can appeal to the SENATE. The decision
of the SENATE shall be final and binding on the student(s).

9. Assistance from Law Enforcement Agencies

The Deans/HoDs/Chief Warden shall have the power and duty to call the Police immediately with the concurrence of
the Director when there is a threat of Law and Order situation in the Campus and also when there is a genuine
apprehension that any incident of rioting, vandalism or any other act prohibited by law is likely to take place. The
Deans/HoDs/Chief Warden shall in such a case give a detailed report to the Director. The Director/Deans/HoDs/Chief
Warden can also arrange for video recording of the entire situation and take requisite actions through police and other
concemed authorities.

10. Grievance Cell
The Institute has set up Grievance Cell where the students can air their grievances related to discrimination based on
caste, creed, region, gender, etc.

11. Women Cell

Complaints related to sexual harassment of women at workplace are dealt by the Women Cell of the Institute as per the
provisions of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 or its
subsequent amendments, if any.

12. Applicability of the Code
The students joining any academic programme of the Institute will have to comply with the provisions envisaged in this
Code in letter and spirit.

13. Opportunity for Hearing
No order, other than the waming to a student, shall be ar without giving an opportunity of hearing to the student.

i 2 kX \o~
14. Ultimate Authority
For all disciplinary matters related to students, the Chairman Senate shall be the final authority as provided herein.

15. Amendments
The SENATE of the Institute shall have the power to amend any of the provisions in this Code. The amendments shall

be brought to the notice of the students and faculty of the Institute.

ee ee

