Ordinances for Bachelor Programmes ~S NO WE Ulalllercbl A eIo1 Sala Sal VZ- 177005 (fearre Fee) se National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Hamirpur-177005(Himachal Pradesh), India Ordinances For Bachelor Programmes (B Tech/B Arch/Dual Degree) Revised in the 39 Senate Meeting Held on 22.09.2023 ~S NO WE Ulalllercbl A eIo1 Sala SalVUZ- 177005 (ferret Feet) SIE National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Hamirpur-177005(Himachal Pradesh), India http://www.nith.ac.in National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Preface The regulations as provided herein “Ordinances for Bachelor Programmes” detail the procedures and requirements of Bachelor programmes being offered by NIT Hamirpur. The provisions contained in these ordinances govern the policies and procedures on the admission of students, registration for courses, imparting instructions of courses, conducting examinations, evaluation and award of degree based upon performance of students. Whereas these ordinances shall also ensure the quality education in Architecture stream, therefore, the gazette notifications issued by Council of Architecture from time to time are made part of these ordinances. These Ordinances shall supersede all the earlier set of rules and regulations of the Institute, with all the amendments thereto, and shall be binding on all the bachelor programme students. The cases of the students admitted in earlier years, shall be dealt appropriately and carefully, so as to ensure that they are not subjected to any unfair situation whatsoever, although they are required to conform to these Ordinances. It shall be ensured that all the policies and procedures given in these Ordinances are achered to and implemented without any change and with all fairness. While handling an issue, if there is no specific mention, the same shall be dealt suitably. It is in the interest of the student that he/she should be fully familiar with the academic system of the Institute and provisions contained in these Ordinances. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes il National Institute of Technology Hamirpur CONTENTS Abbreviations vii Definitions vili-ix 1. INTRODUCTION 1 2 BACHELOR PROGRAMMES AND GOALS 1 3. ACADEMIC BODIES FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMMES 2 3.1 Senate 2 3.2 Office of the Dean (Academic) 2 3.3 Standing Committee of SENATE 3 3.4 Senate Bachelors Programme Committee (SBPC) 3 3.4.1 Constitution of SBPC 3 3.4.2 Functions and Jurisdiction of SBPC 4 3.5 Departmental Bachelors Programme Committee (DBPC) 4 3.5.1 Constitution of DBPC 4 3.5.2 Responsibilities of DBPC 5 4. ACADEMIC SESSION AND ACADEMIC CALENDAR 5 41 Academic Session 6 42 Academic Calendar 6 5. ADMISSION IN BACHELOR PROGRAMME 6 5.1 Admission Procedure 6 5.1.1 Centralized Counseling 6 542 Admissions in Bachelors’ Programme under DASA/ICCR/MEA 6 /Study in India etc. 5.2 Reservation Policy in Admission 7 5.3 Withdrawal of Admission 7 5.4 Cancellation of Admission 7 Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes ill National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 6. REGISTRATION IN BACHELOR PROGRAMME 7 6.1 Registration Procedure 7 6.2 Late Registration 8 6.3 Changing Registration of Elective Courses 8 6.4 Multiple Entry/Multiple Exit Policy of NEP-2020 9 6.5 Cancellation of Registration 9 7. COURSES OF STUDY FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMME 9 7 Course Curriculum 9 72 Semester Load 9 73 Provisions for Minor, Twin/Double Major, and Dual/Integrated degrees 10 7.3.1 Degree with Minor 10 7.3.2 Dual/Integrated Degree 10 74 Audit Courses 10 75 Framing/Modification of Course Curriculum 10 7.6 Starting of New Bachelor Programme 10 8. EVALUATION AND GRADING SYSTEM FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMME 11 8.1 Evaluation System 11 8.1.1 Evaluation of Theory/Practical/Drawing/Engineering | Workshop/ Programming & Coding Skills/ Studio Courses "1 8.1.2 Evaluation of Major Project 13 8.13 Summer/Industrial Training/Onsite/Office Training/Dissertation 14 /Architecture Design Thesis 8.1.4 Evaluation of General Proficiency 15 8.1.5 Student Activity (LA/CA) Courses for 4 Semester B.Tech. Programmes 16 8.2 Grading System 16 8.3 Grade Point Index (GPI) 18 8.4 Improvement in CGPI 18 8.5 Supplementary Examination 19 Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes iv National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 8.6 Grade Report Card and Transcript 19 9. ACADEMIC PERFROMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR BACHELOR DEGREE 19 9.1 Attendance Requirement 19 9.2 Minimum and Maximum Duration Requirement 20 9.3 Performance Through Carry Over System 20 94 Academic Performance Requirement for Continuation in the Programme and 20 Award of Degree 10. PROCEDURE FOR AWARD OF BACHELOR DEGREE 21 10.1 Requirement for Degree 21 10.2 Award of Degree 21 10.3 Termination of Programme 21 10.4 Withdrawal of Degree 22 11. HOLIDAYS, VACATIONS AND SEMESTER LEAVE 22 11.1 Holidays and Vacations 22 11.2 Semester Leave 22 11.3 Absence Without Sanctioned Leave 22 114 Permission to proceed to other Institutions 23 11.4.1 Eligibility 23 11.4.2 Application procedure 23 11.4.3 Transfer of Credits and Waiver in-lieu thereof 23 12. PERMISSION FOR ATTENDING THE CONFERENCE AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 24 13. CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE RULES 25 13.1 Code of Conduct 25 13.2 Disciplinary Actions and Related Matter 29 13.3 Unfair Means 26 13.4 Stay at Hostel 27 Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 13.5 Appeal Against Termination 27 14. AWARD OF STIPENDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS 27 15. AWARD OF PRIZES AND MEDALS 28 16. INTERPRETATION OF CONTENTS OF BACHELORS ORDINANCES 28 16.1 General 28 16.2 Interpretations 28 16.3 Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases 28 16.4 Jurisdiction 28 Annexures BP# Bachelor and Dual Degree Programmes | BPP-01 Application for Academic Matters Il BPP-02 Application for Issuing of Certificates/Documents Ill BPP-03 Application for Withdrawal of Admission IV BPP-04 Application for Exiting the Programme under ME/ME policy of NEP-2020 V BPP-05 Application for Semester Leave Vl BPP-06 Application for Proceeding as Non-Degree Student Vil BPP-07 Transfer Credit(Waiver Request Form VIII BPP-08 Application for Financial Assistance to attend Conference IX BPP-09 Form for Reporting the Unfair Means Cases (UMCs) X BPP-10 Application for Mercy Appeal Against Termination Xll RW Guidelines for Project Report Writing Xlll Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes Vi National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Abbreviations BoG BoD CGPI CoA DASA DBPC DDPC DMPC GMC Gol HoD ICCR MEA MoE NEP-2020 ME/ME SBPC SDPC SGPI SMPC UMC Board of Governors Board of Discipline Cumulative Grade Point Index Council of Architecture Direct Admission of Students Abroad Departmental Bachelors Programme Committee Departmental Doctoral Programme Committee Departmental Masters Programme Committee Grade Moderation Committee Government of India Head of the Department Indian Council for Cultural Relations Ministry of External Affairs Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya) National Education Policy-2020 Multiple Entry/Multiple Exit Policy Senate Bachelors Programme Committee Senate Doctoral Programme Committee Semester Grade Point Index Senate Masters Programme Committee Unfair Means Committee Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes vii National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Definitions Unless the context requires, otherwise, « “Applicant” shall mean an individual who applies for admission to any Under Graduate (UG) or Dual Degree programme of the Institute = “Board of Governors” shall mean Board of Governors of the Institute = “CGPI” shall mean the Cumulative Grade Point Index of a student = “Council” shall mean the Council of the National Institutes of Technology = “Course” shall mean a curricular component identified by a designated codenumber and a title = “Course Coordinator” shall mean a faculty member who shall have full responsibility for the course, coordinating the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course, including examinations and the award of grades = “CSAB” shall mean Central Seat Allocation Board constituted by MoE, Government of India = “Dean (Academic)” shall mean the Dean(Academic), NIT Hamirpur = “Center” would mean any academic Centre imparting education and/or pursuing research = “Department” would mean any academic Department or a Centre imparting education and/or pursuing research = “EWS/SC/ST/OBC” shall mean the economically weaker sections, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward class (non-creamy layer) as notified by the Government of India from time to time = “DBPC” shall mean the Departmental Bachelors Programme Committee =  “DDPC” shall mean the Departmental Doctoral Programme Committee = “DMPC” shall mean the Departmental MastersProgramme Committee = “Degree” shall mean the B Tech/B Arch/Dual degree and such other degrees of the Institute as may be approved by the Board of Governors = “Educational Institution” shall mean those institutions which offer Bachelor and/or higher degrees in Science, Engineering/Technology/ Architecture, Management, Humanities, etc. = “Grade Moderation Committee” shall mean the committee appointed by the Department to moderate grades awarded by the course coordinators indifferent courses in a semester ata given level of a curriculum « “Institute” or “NITH” shall mean the National Institute of Technology Hamirpur = = “JoSAA” shall mean Joint Seat Allocation Authority constituted by MoE, Government of India = “MoE” shall mean Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Government of India = “CoA” shall mean Council of Architecture, Government of India = “SBPC" shall mean the Senate Bachelors Programme Committee of the Institute =  “SDPC" shall mean the Senate Doctoral Programme Committee of the Institute =  “SMPC" shall mean the Senate Masters Programme Committee of the Institute Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes Vili National Institute of Technology Hamirpur “SGPI” shall mean the Semester Grade Point Index of a student “Sponsored Candidate” shall mean a Bachelor's degree programme student receiving full financial support from the Sponsoring Organization “Supervisor/Guide” shall mean a faculty member of the Institute,and/or from outside the Institute approved by the DBPC and/or SBPC and/or SENATE, to supervise the student for the designated academic activity “Synopsis” shall mean the summary of the work done towards project which shall be used for evaluation “Course Curriculum” shall mean the Course Structure and Syllabi for a bachelor programme approved by the SENATE Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes ix National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 1. INTRODUCTION Education means acquisition of knowledge and experience as well as develooment of skills and attitude which is required for the growth of modern civilization. The aim of the education at the undergraduate level is to build on the knowledge gained by an undergraduate student through the school curriculum, by imparting knowledge with the help of class room instructions, training and other modes of teaching. After completing the curriculum, the student will acquire adequate knowledge base in the desired branch, which could be easily employed for the solution of real life problems and developed further through higher education, for reaching the frontiers of knowledge in his/her area of specialization. The undergraduate education has both academic and extracurricular components designed for the integrated development of professionals possessing individual values of ethics and morality. After completing undergraduate programme many of the students start working in different organizations where teamwork is the predominant mode of functioning. Ethics and discipline are of paramount importance otherwise teamwork is unattainable. Due to rapid evolution of knowledge the academic programmes require provision for continuous updating of the content to incorporate new developments in a particular area of knowledge. The curriculum is periodically reviewed for including the latest developments and interdisciplinary courses. Exchange of knowledge and methodology across the disciplines is an important aspect in the overall development of the individual. The curriculum at the undergraduate level has been so structured that it offers enough flexibility to the students to tailor his/her learning to individual inclinations and the desired career objectives. Therefore, the ordinance as embodied here is for specifying the provision required for the purpose of smooth functioning of undergraduate academic programme. It shall be ensured that all the rules and procedures given in this ordinance are adhered to and implemented without any change and with all fairness. While considering an issue, if the Bachelor Ordinances does not specifically cover something, the same shall be forwarded by DBPC to Chairman, Senate through SBPC for consideration and further decision. The decision of the Chairman, Senate with regard to rulings related to Ordinances for Bachelor Programmes shall be final. 2. BACHELOR PROGRAMMES AND GOALS The Institute shall offer the Bachelor Programmes (B Tech/B Arch) in the branches as enlisted in Annexure-BP#l or any other branch as approved by Board of Governors (BoG) on the recommendation of SENATE from time to time. The number of seats in each branch of Bachelor Programme shall be decided by the BoG on recommendation of SENATE or as per the directions of Ministry of Education (MoE) and Council of Architecture (CoA) for B Tech and B Arch programme respectively issued from time to time. The Institute shall also offer Dual Degree Programmes in the branches as enlisted in Annexure-BP#l or any other branch as approved by BoG on the recommendation of SENATE from time to time. A student in the Dual Degree Programme shall be governed by Bachelors Ordinances until he/she registers for M Tech Dissertation. In the normal course, it means until the beginning of 9!" semester. After the student registers for M Tech Dissertation, Masters Ordinances shall become applicable. The goals of the Bachelor/Dual Degree Programmes at the National Institute of Technology Hamirpur are as follows: Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 1 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur e To develop the scientific, engineering, Architectural and managerial manpower of the highest quality to cater to the needs of the industry, R&D organizations and academia e Toprovide opportunity to students to do research in cutting edge areas e Tobe arole model and leader of educational institutions in the country e Tocultivate high standards of performance in teaching and research e Toprovide a broad grasp of the fundamental principles of the scientific, technological and managerial methods through its curriculum e Toprovide an innovative ability to solve new and open problems e Toprovide a capacity to learn continually and interact with multi-disciplinary groups e To develop the students with a capability for free and objective enquiry, courage and integrity, awareness and sensitivity to the needs and aspirations of society and doing independent research in their chosen areas With above goals in mind, the Bachelor/Dual Degree Programmes are designed to include components like theory and practical course works, seminars and projects, through which a student can develop his/her concepts and intellectual skills. The procedures and requirements stated in the ordinances embody the philosophy of ensuring highest standards of academic and research performance at the Institute for Bachelor/Dual Degree Programmes. Within this general framework, the individual Department or Center may impose additional requirements to serve their particular academic goals with the approval of SENATE. Hereafter, Departments and Centers imparting education and/or pursuing research shall be referred to as Department 3. ACADEMIC BODIES FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMMES The Institute shall have different academic bodies so as to plan and handle the academic matters pertaining to Bachelor/Dual Degree Programmes. 3.1. Senate - As per clause 14 of The NIT Act-2007. 3.2 Office of the Dean (Academic) The office of the Dean (Academic), called the Academic Section, is responsible for the implementation of the decisions taken on academic matters by the SENATE and other Academic bodies. Its functions are as follows: ° Receives, processes and maintains all records relating to Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Programmes including curricula, courses offered, academic calendar, registration, leave, examinations, grades and award of degrees and prizes e — Disseminates information pertaining to all relevant academic matters e — Issues necessary Memoranda/Orders related to Academics ° Acts as a channel of communication between the students, Departments and other Academic bodies of the Institute Academic Section also assists the Academic bodies and its subcommittees in their functioning. Dean (Academic) is the main functionary who ensures the smooth functioning of the academic programmes as Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 2 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur approved by the SENATE, executes the policies and decisions of the SENATE and other Academic bodies, and ensures that all records and files are maintained. The Bachelor Programme Section of the office of Dean (Academic) shall assist the Senate Bachelors’ Programme Committee in its functioning and updates/maintains the records related to Bachelor Programme. 3.3 Standing Committee of SENATE A Standing Committee of SENATE shall assist the Chairman, Senate in academic matters within the purview of SENATE which are urgent in the interest of the Institute from time to time. The composition of the Standing Committee of SENATE shall be as under: 1. Dean (Academic) Chairperson 2. Dean (Student Welfare) Member 3. Director’s Nominee from Amongst Senate Members (2) Members 4. HoD(s) of Concerned Department, as special invitee if the matter pertains | Member to the Department 5. Chairperson, SBPC Member 6. Chairperson, SMPC Member 7. Chairperson, SDPC Member 8. Registrar Member Secretary The Chairman, Senate shall mark the academic matters of urgent nature to the Chairperson/Member Secretary of above Committee for discussion and the recommendations of above Committee shall be put up to the Chairman, Senate for consideration and approval. The approved matter will be implemented and further ratified in the next SENATE meeting. 3.4 Senate Bachelors’ Programme Committee The Senate Bachelors’ Programme Committee (SBPC) shall assist the SENATE in all academic matters related to the Bachelor/Dual Degree Programmes which operates through the Department Bachelors Programme Committees (DBPCs). 3.4.1 Constitution of SBPC The Senate Bachelors Programme Committee (SBPC) shall have the following composition: A faculty member nominated by the Chairman, Senate, preferably a Senate . 1. Chairperson member 2. | Convener, DBPC from all Academic Departments Members 3. | Immediate former Chairperson, SBPC, if not already a member Member 4. | Chairperson, SMPC Member 5. | Faculty member nominated by Chairman, Senate (from Senate Members) Member 6. Two Bachelor Students (one boy and one girl from third year to be nominated by Members the Dean (Academic) on the basis of merit) 7. | Faculty member nominated by Chairman, Senate Member Secretary Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 3 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur The tenure of the committee and the Chairperson, SBPC shall be normally of two years except for student members. The SBPC shall meet at least two times in every semester. 3.4.2 Functions and Jurisdiction of SBPC The functions of the SBPC consist primarily of general policy determination, coordination and review, but the Senate shall retain the power of final decision. In the discharge of its responsibilities the Committee shall make full use of the appraisals and recommendations of the various academic Departments concerned while recommending a case to the Senate. This Committee shall be assisted by the DBPCs of various Departments. The SBPC shall have jurisdiction in the following matters concerning the Bachelors/Dual Degree Programmes of the Institute: e Recommendation of new Bachelors’ programmes and new courses e Recommendation of new course curriculum e Recommendation for credit value of courses e Recommendation for award of degrees e Recommendation for granting of appropriate Certificate under Multiple Entry/Multiple Exit (ME/ME) policy of National Education Policy (NEP-2020) e Approval for the modifications/changes in the contents of the courses recommended by DBPC. The same shall be reported in the forthcoming Senate. e Continuous evaluation of academic performance of programmes e Other related matters as may be referred to it by the SENATE 3.5 Departmental Bachelors’ Programme Committee Each academic department shall have a Departmental Bachelors Programme Committee (DBPC) for dealing the academic matters of Bachelors/Dual Degree Programmes of the Department. 3.5.1 Constitution of DBPC The DBPC shall have the following constitution: . Head of the Department (HoD) '. |Chaiperson, DBPC (Ex-officio Chairperson) To be nominated by HoD in 2. |Convener, DBPC consultation with Department Faculty Board 3. |Convener, DMPC Member (Ex-officio) 4. |*Six Additional Members () One Professor, if available (otherwise Associate/Assistant Member Professor) (ii) One Associate Professor, if available (otherwise Assistant Member Professor) (iii) One Assistant Professor Member (iv) One Professor/Associate Professor from other Department Member Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 4 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur (v) Two Bachelor Programme Students (from third year to be nominated by the HoD on the basis of merit) for a period of one year Members “In case sufficient faculty members are not there in a particular Department, Chairman, Senate may nominate faculty from other Departments of the Institute as member of the DBPC. The DBPC shall be proposed by the HoD in consultation with the Department Faculty Board (DFB) and shall be approved by the Chairperson, SBPC. The term of the Committee shall be two years, preferably, starting from the month of July. The student members shall not participate when the cases of academic evaluation of the concerned students are being considered, although the students’ opinion might be sought prior to taking any decision. 3.5.2 Responsibilities of DBPC Following are the responsibilities of DBPC: e Monitoring and maintaining quality of teaching/instructions to students e Recommendation for desirable modifications/changes in the contents of the courses already approved e Proposing new courses and programmes as well as implementing courses and programmes approved by SENATE/BoG e Advising the students about their curriculum and academic opportunities e Attending to the problems of students and advising/counseling them in academic matters e To recommend the cases of Bachelors’/Dual Degree students for continuation/extension /termination/ cancellation of programme. e Recommending the cases of Bachelors’ students for awarding appropriate certificates under ME/ME Policy of NEP-2020 e Acting as Student Grievance Committee for Bachelor programme students e Preparation for the evaluation/accreditation of academic programmes e Any other work assigned to it by SBPC/Dean (Academic\/SENATE The Chairperson, DBPC is expected to hold the committee meetings regularly and to keep record of its decisions. DBPC shall meet at least two times in an academic semester. Regarding preparation/modification in syllabus and course curriculum pertaining to B. Tech./B.Arch./Dual Degree Programmes of the Institute, three members from the Field of Practice/Academia are to be included in the constituted DBPC and shall be named as Board of Academic Studies (BoAS) of the concerned Department. 4. ACADEMIC SESSION AND ACADEMIC CALENDAR All the academic activities and other important co-curricular and extra-curricular events of the insitute shall follow a specified timelines in the academic year. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 5 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 4.1. Academic Session The academic session of the Institute is divided into two semesters each of approximately eighteen weeks duration. The semester timeline is defined in the Academic Calendar and is broacly the following: Semester | (Odd Semester): July to December. Semester Il (Even Semester): January to June. Each regular semester (odd and even) shall be for fourteen weeks for academic instructions. Generally, the last two weeks of each semester shall be earmarked for the End Semester Examination and one week during the semester for Mid Semester Examination. 4.2. Academic Calendar The exact dates of all the important events, such as orientation, registration, late registration, commencement and end of the classes, submission of documents, examinations, submissions of grades, vacation, mid-semester break, etc., during the Academic Session shall be specified in the Academic Calendar of the Institute. The SENATE shall approve the Academic Calendar prior to start of each Academic Session. 3. | ADMISSION INBACHELOR PROGRAMME The admission to eligible candidates as a student into an institution is carried out centrally by an agency entrusted by MoE in various degree programmes. 5.1. Admission Procedure The admissions to various Bachelor Programmes (B Tech, B Arch, and Dual Degree) shall be made once a year normally during June-July. 5.1.1 Centralized Counseling These admissions to various Bachelor Programmes (B Tech, B Arch and Dual Degree) shall be made through centralized counseling process/bodies notified by the MoE, Government of India (Gol) from time to time. The admissions shall be made on the basis of performance in all India level examination conducted by agency notified by MoE, Gol from time to time. All the details are normally made available on the website of these bodies/agencies and candidates are required to follow the prescribed procedure. After the completion of centralized seat allotment, the candidates are required to report in the Institute. 5.1.2 Admissions in Bachelors’ Programme under DASA/ICCR/MEA/Study in India etc. Admissions of Foreign Nationals/Persons of Indian Origin/Non-Resident Indians /Overseas Citizen of India can be made to various Bachelors’ programmes under Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) scheme of MoE. Further the admission can be made under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Programme of Gol, administered by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Study in India Programme of Gol, or any other scheme of Gol etc. as per rules of respective scheme. The seats under all these schemes are over and above the sanctioned seats. The admission process is handled by coordinating institute who is entrusted the responsibility by MoE. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 6 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 5.2 Reservation Policy in Admission Reservation policy as prescribed by Gol from time to time shall be applicable. 5.3 Withdrawal of Admission The Institute will consider any request for withdrawal of admission if such request is made in accordance with the following prescribed rules: () Any student admitted to any of the B.Tech./B.Arch./Dual Degree programmes offered by the Institute may apply for withdrawal of his/her admission at any time during the academic year of admission or later (ii) | Application for withdrawal must be made in the prescribed format (Annexure: BPP-03) duly signed by the student and his/her parent/guardian (ii) | The application must be routed through the concerned Department, whenever applicable (in all cases after closing of the admission process during first semester) (iv) Refund of fee to such students will be made as per Institute refund rules 5.4 Cancellation of Admission All students admitted to any programme shall submit copies of their mark-sheets, transfer/migration certificate, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last specified date for the purpose in Admission Information Brochure/Academic Calendar. Chairman, Senate on recommendation of Dean (Academic) may cancel the admission of any student who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s). The Chairman, Senate may also cancel the admission at any later stage if it is found that the student had supplied some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 6. REGISTRATION IN BACHELOR PROGRAMME A student is mandatorily required to register in every semester in person as per schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar for the courses that he/she intends to pursue in that semester after depositing the requisite fee. The registration will be coordinated at the Department level under the supervision of the Head of that respective Department. Whereas, for the first time registration in the programme the institute registration committee, duly notified by the Dean (Academic), will complete the entire process. 6.1 Registration Procedure 1. The registration process involves payment of fees and clearance of outstanding dues (if any), signing of the Registration Roll in person, and submitting a duly filled/completed Registration Card. This process may be partially/completely online. As a special case, the B Tech and B Arch students proceeding for Internship and Office Training of one semester respectively (in 8'"/9'" semester) may be relaxed the condition of in person registration and shall be allowed to do the needful with regard to registration before leaving the Institute Campus for Internship/Office Training. The OIC (T&P) of the Department shall be the Convener registration for such students and all such applications/representations shall be dealt and approved by the concerned Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 7 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur HOD with a copy of the decision to the Dean(Academic). The students of Dual Degree Programme can also avail such facility for their registration in the 10 Semester. 2. All the students, excluding those who are on authorized leave, shall continue to register in the following semesters till they complete their programme. 3. The candidates admitted to the Institution in their first year in any programme are required to submit certificates/documents of having passed the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date given in the Admission Information Brochure/Academic Calendar to get their registration regularized. 4. Any student who does not qualify the Architectural design course in a semester will not be registered in next semester. However, such a student can avail a special chance to appear again, before the date of registration in next semester (in December), for clearing the course. This provision will be applicable exclusively for B Arch students as per the CoA regulations. The sole responsibility for Registration shall rest with the student concerned. 6.2 Late Registration If for any compelling reasons beyond the control of an individual, a student is unable to register on the day of registration, he/she will be allowed to register till the last date of registration specified in the Academic Calendar (which is generally about one week from the date of registration). Any student registering late shall have to pay Late Fee as decided by the SENATE from time to time. However, in genuine cases supported by the authenticated documents, the late fee can be waived off by the Dean (Academic) on the recommendation of concerned HoD on case to case basis. In rare exceptional cases of Industrial Training/Internship outside India, Chairman, Senate may give prior permission to a student for late registration without Late Fee provided that the case is recommended by the concerned DBPC based on genuineness and this permission is obtained before proceeding for Industrial Training/Internship. However, the maximum period of late registration cannot exceed three weeks after initial date of registration (i.e. date without Late Fee) specified in the Academic Calendar. In this case, it will be the sole responsibility of the student to maintain requisite level of attendance requirement and his/her attendance shall be counted from the Last Date of Late Registration (i.e. date with Late Fee) mentioned in the Academic Calendar. Only in very exceptional cases, a student may be allowed to register after Last Date of Late Registration with the permission of Chairman, Senate on the recommendation of concerned HoD and Dean (Academic) on case to case basis. 6.3 Changing Registration of Elective Courses The last date for changing registration of elective courses will be the last date of late registration as specified in the Academic Calendar and no change will be allowed after this date. The final list of registered candidates in a particular elective will be sent by concerned HoD to Academic Section for record. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 8 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 6.4 Multiple Entry/Multiple Exit Policy of NEP-2020 The enrolled Bachelors’ students may opt for exiting the programme at any stage as per the ME/ME policy of NEP-2020. The students need to apply for in the parent department for exiting the programme (Annexure: BPP-04). The DBPC will recommend the case to Dean (academic) for final approval and notification. Such candidates shall be allowed to join back only with the approval of Chairman Senate and have to register in the same semester in the subsequent year during the registration schedule for the completion of degree. 6.5 Cancellation of Registration Registration in a semester shall stand cancelled at any stage, if the student fails to fulfill the laid down criteria for registration in that semester. The concerned DBPC is supposed to recommend such cases for the approval of Chairman, Senate through Chairperson, SBPC and Dean (Academic). The Dean (Academic) office will issue the notice for cancellation of registration after approval. 7. COURSES OF STUDY FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMME As per the NEP-2020 guidelines, students will be the architect of their curriculum, accordingly the curriculum structure for B Tech/B Arch/Dual degree programmes have been framed. There is variety of courses namely; Institute Core/Elective, Discipline Core/Elective, Stream Core/Elective, Interdisciplinary courses as well as MOOCs/SWAYAM, LA/CA courses for which each student has to register in each semester as per the course curriculum of the programme. 7.1. Course Curriculum The B Tech/B Arch/Dual Degree course curriculum shall consist of course structure and course syllabi. Further course structure consists of list of core and elective theory courses and practical as well as drawing courses in basic sciences, engineering sciences, humanities and social sciences and management sciences. In addition, there are course components on seminar, major project and architecture design. The electives consist of a set of professional electives and open electives. The Departments may organize educational tours and training as well. Each student is required to register for the courses specified in course structure of respective branch. The course curriculum of a programme consisting of course structure and course syllabi shall be approved by the SENATE from time to time on the recommendation of SBPC through DBPC. In general, the medium of instructions at National Institute of Technology Hamirpur shall be English. 7.2. Semester Load A student shall register for various nature of courses every Semester as per the approved course structure of respective programme and branch. Each course carries a weight in terms of credit units depending upon the nature of the course (theory/practical/Drawing/studios/workshops/design projects or thesis) which, in turn, is determined by the number of contact hours that a student is expected to devote per week. Each course along with its weight in terms of credits shall be shown in approved curriculum. Only approved courses of a course curriculum shall be offered during any Semester. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 9 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 7.3. Provisions for Minor and Dual/Integrated degrees 7.3.1. Degree with Minor 7.3.2 Dual/Integrated Degree The above matters (7.3, 7.3.1, 7.3.2) are deferred for the time being and shall be decided in the forthcoming Senate meeting. 7.4 Audit Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of the concerned Head of Department. There will, however, be no obligation on the part of Department to reschedule the time table if any clash arises. Under this arrangement, the student is simply auditing the course and the grade awarded to him/her in that course shall be entered in his/her Grade Card, but shall not be considered for SGPI/CGPI calculations. 7.5. Framing/Modification of Course Curriculum A new course curriculum or modification to existing course curriculum in terms of changes in course structure and course syllabi require the approval of the SENATE before implementation. The proposal shall first be recommended by concerned DBPC. Thereafter, concerned Convener, DBPC will send the recommendation to the Chairperson, SBPC who will put the case in SBPC meeting for deliberation. The recommendations of SBPC along with comments/suggestions shall be put up in SENATE for approval through Dean (Academic). If a meeting of SENATE is not scheduled before implementation of modified curriculum then Chairman, Senate may approve the proposal which shall be ratified in the next SENATE meeting. 7.6 Starting of New Bachelor Programme On the request of concerned DBPC of the Department, the proposal to start a new bachelor programme leading to B Tech/B Arch/ Dual Degree or equivalent, along with proper justification shall be submitted to Chairperson SBPC for deliberations and recommendations of SBPC. It shall be the responsibility of concerned DBPC and the SBPC to look into the full details of infrastructure facilities, scope/acceptability of the programme, proposed intake, teaching scheme and syllabi, etc. The DBPC in such cases shall invite two external experts from reputed  Institute/research organization —(IITs/NITs/CFTI/Central University/Central Government research Organization), with the approval of Chairman, Senate. The recommendations along with comments/suggestions shall be placed in the SENATE through Dean (Academic) for its recommendations. The recommendations of the Senate shall then be forwarded to the BOG for approval. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 10 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 8. EVALUATION AND GRADING SYSTEM FOR BACHELOR PROGRAMME The performance of the student is evaluated through a series of examinations and tests that are scheduled during the academic semester for a given course. Grading is the process to evaluate each individual student's performance and learning by applying standardized measurements of varying levels of achievement in a course. NIT Hamirpur assign letters grade in each course. 8.1 Evaluation System The evaluation of students in a particular course shall be based on his/her performance in Continuous Semester Assessment (tutorials, assignments, class test, quizzes, laboratory work, viva, etc.), Mid Semester Examination, and End Semester Examination. The complete transparency shall be maintained in evaluation system. The evaluation of answer sheets of Mid Semester Examination, quizzes and class tests, and home assignments shall be done within reasonable time and shown to the students. The answer sheets of the End Semester Examination will also be shown to the students after evaluation within reasonable time as per the Schedule of Academic Calendar. Similar practices shall also be followed during supplementary examination. For each course, there will be a course coordinator appointed by Head of respective Department. The course coordinator shall be responsible for setting the question paper, maintaining its secrecy, evaluating and awarding the grades. For the courses, where more than one faculty members are involved in teaching, one of them shall be appointed as course coordinator by Head of respective Department but question paper will be set by course coordinator in consultation with associated faculty members. 8.1.1 Evaluation of Theory/Practical/Drawing/Engineering Workshop/ Programming & Coding Skills/ Studio Courses The weightages of various components for award of Grades in Theory/Practical/Drawing/Engineering Workshop/Programming & Coding Skills /Studio Courses shall be as under: A. Evaluation of Courses offered for B Tech/Dual Degree programmes There are varieties of courses which are offered to B Tech/Dual degree programme and their weightages of various components for award of Grades shall be as under e Courses having Lectures (Theory Courses) SN | Component Weightage Continuous Semester Assessment (Based on _ performance in 1. ; ; 20% assignments/quizzes/tests/tutorials, etc.) 2. | Mid Semester Examination 30% , (1’4 Hours) a 50% 3. | End Semester Examination (03 Hours) Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 11 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur e Courses having Practical’s SN | Component Weightage Continuous Semester Assessment (Based on quantity and quality of 1. | experiments/jobs, skills in handling equipment, performance in viva/tests, 60% accuracy of outcomes/features, etc.) 2. | End Semester Examination (Performance in practical/job/test/quiz/viva, etc.) 40% e Courses of Engineering Workshop/Engineering Graphics/Programming &Coding Skills SN | Component | Weightage Continuous Evaluation Continuous Semester Assessment (Based on quantity and quality of 1. | experiments/jobs/drawings, skills in handling equipment, performance in 60% viva/tests, accuracy of outcomes/features, etc.) End Semester Evaluation 2. | Write up 20% 3 a meer Examination (Based on quality of job/drawing/project/coding 20% skills B. Evaluation of Courses offered for B Arch Degree programme There are numerous courses which are offered to B Arch degree programme and their weightages of various components for award of Grades shall be as under: e Courses having Lectures and Tutorials (Theory Courses) SN_ | Component Weightage Continuous Semester Assessment (Based on_ performance in 0 1. ; 30% assignments/quizzes/tests/tutorials, etc.) ar 20% 2. Mid Semester Examination (1% Hours) ae 50% 3. End Semester Examination (03 Hours) e Courses having Lectures and Practicals SN _ | Theory Component (Overall Weightage: 80%) Practical Component (Overall Weightage: 20%) Continuous Semester Continuous Semester Assessment Assessment (Based on (Based on quantity and quality of 1. | performance in | 30% experiments/jobs, skills in handling | 50% assignments/quizzes/ equipment, performance in viva/tests, tests/tutorials, etc.) accuracy of outcomes/features, etc.) F og 20% End Semester Examination (Performance 6 2. | Mid Semester Examination (1% Hours) in practical/job/test/quiz/viva, etc.) 50% og 50% 3. | End Semester Examination (03 Hours) Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 12 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur e Courses having Practicals/Studios(Drawing Courses)/Workshops/Office Training/Dissertation SN | Component Weightage Continuous Semester Assessment (Based on quantity and quality of 1. | experiments/jobs, skills in handling equipment, performance in viva/tests, 50% accuracy of outcomes/features/design problems, etc.) End Semester Examination (Performance in workshop activity, practical/job/test/quiz/viva/Portfolio, Studio work, etc.) 50% e Architecture Design Thesis Course The weightages of various components for award of Grades in the Architecture Design Thesis Course shall be as under: S No | Particulars Weightage | Remarks 1. | Mid Semester Evaluation 30% , 2. | End Semester Evaluation 50% To be awarded by the Committee 3. | Continuous Semester Assessment 20% To be awarded by the Supervisor 8.1.2 Evaluation of Project Work The Project shall normally be evaluated on the basis of quality of work carried out, the reports submitted and written as per the guidelines for project Report Writing (Annexure: RW), contents and presentation. Project Coordinator, appointed by HoD, shall act as Coordinator of all project Groups. Formation of Project groups shall be done by the Project Coordinator along with allotment of guide(s) to each group. Each Project Group shall be evaluated twice i.e. during Mid Semester and End Semester by a Committee as per the schedule mentioned in Academic Calendar. The Committee is to be constituted by the concemed HoD for the evaluation of projects work in consultation with DBPC of the Department as per the following composition: 1. |HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. |Faculty members with different streams from the Department (minimum two) Members 3. |One Faculty Member from other Department Member 4, |Project Coordinator Member Secretary The letter grades need to be uploaded by the Project Coordinator and copy to be sent to the Academic Section. The evaluation shall be made as per the following criteria: S No | Particulars Weightage | Remarks 1. | Mid Semester Evaluation 30% , 2. | End Semester Evaluation 40% To be awarded by the Committee 3. | Continuous Semester Assessment 30% To be awarded by the Supervisor Successful demonstration of hardware project in general will entitle a group for better marks/grade Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 13 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 8.1.3 Summer/Industrial Training/Onsite/Office Training/Dissertation/Architecture Design Thesis All the Bachelor degree programme students shall get real-world work experience and an opportunity to learn and get some practical work experience in a specific field. During training students have to gain real- world experience in their chosen field of study and to apply what they have learned in the classroom to a real-world setting. Through training the students will be able to have a hands-on-experience and develop professional skills for applying their knowledge on the live projects. The training can be obtained within India or abroad. A. Evaluation of Summer/Industrial Training for B Tech/Dual Degree students B Tech/Dual Degree students are required to undergo 4-6 weeks of Summer/Industrial/Onsite Training after the end of sixth semester (during summer vacations) within India or abroad. The evaluation and award of grades for Summer/Industrial/Onsite training shall be done by Committee(s) constituted by HoD consisting of: 1. |HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. — | Faculty Members from the Department (minimum two) Members 3. | OIC (Training & Placement of the department) Convener The slots for evaluation/presentation for the Summer/Industrial Training undertaken by the students shall be mentioned in the Time Table of the concerned Department in the semester immediately following the Training. The Evaluation Committee(s) shall evaluate the students during these slots. Whereas, interested B Tech/Dual Degree students may also undergo Industrial Training/Internship after second/fourth semester (during summer vacations) for which No Objection Certificate may be obtained from the concerned HoD. However, there shall not be any evaluation for this Industrial Training/Internship and also it will not be mentioned in the Grade Report Card of the student. B. Evaluation of Industrial/Onsite/Office Training/Dissertation/Architecture Design Thesis for B Arch students B Arch students are required to undergo one semester Office Training during 8th/9th semester for a period of six months/one semester in the office of an Architect or an organization operating in an allied field of practice or research, duly approved by the institution, under the mentorship of an architect having experience of at least 5 years The training can be done outside the institute but within India or abroad as per CoA regulations and approved scheme. Training in foreign country shall be done under the Registered Architect of that country and to be approved and monitored by the Head of the University or Institution. The evaluation and award of grades for Industrial/Onsite/Office Training shall be done by Evaluation Committee(s) constituted by HoD consisting of: 1. _|HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. |Faculty Members from the Department (minimum two) Members 3. | OIC (Training & Placement of the department) Convener Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 14 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Similarly the evaluation and award of grades for Dissertation shall be done by Evaluation Committee(s) constituted by HoD consisting of: 1. _|HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. |Faculty Members from the Department (minimum two) Member 3. | Supervisor/Guide Member 4. | Dissertation Coordinator Convener The course Architecture Design Thesis shall be evaluated twice i.e. during Mid Semester and End Semester by the Committee/Jury as per the schedule mentioned in Academic Calendar. The Mid Semester evaluation shall be carried out by a committee to be constituted by the concerned HoD in consultation with DBPC of the Department as per the following composition: 1. HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. Faculty members from the Department Member 3. Faculty Member from other Department (Nominated by Dean (Academic)) | Member 4. Supervisor/Guide member 5. Thesis Coordinator Member Secretary Whereas the End semester evaluation shall be carried out by a jury in which the member from other department will be replaced by an expert from outside institute. The external examiner shall be appointed by the Chairman, Senate out of a panel of experts (minimum five) submitted by the HoD in consultation with Convener, DBPC. The letter grades need to be uploaded by the Thesis Coordinator and copy to be sent to the Academic Section. The slots for evaluation/presentation for the Industrial/Onsite/Office Training/Dissertation, undertaken by students, shall be mentioned in the Time Table of the concerned Department in the semester immediately following the Training. The Evaluation Committee(s) shall evaluate the students during these slots. Whereas, interested B Arch Degree students may also undergo Industrial Training/Internship after fourth/sixth semester (during summer vacations) for which No Objection Certificate may be obtained from the concerned HoD. However, there shall not be any evaluation for this Industrial Training/Internship and also it will not be mentioned in the Grade Report Card of the student. 8.1.4 Evaluation of General Proficiency General Proficiency shall be based on the participation, performance in various co-curricular activities and conduct of the student during the entire duration of the programme. The holistic evaluation of each student and award of grades for General Proficiency shall be done by Evaluation Committee(s) constituted by HoD of the concerned Department as per the following composition: Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 15 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 1. |HoD or his/her nominee Chairperson 2. |Faculty members from the Department (minimum two) Members 3. |OIC (Departmental Society) Convener OIC (Departmental Society) shall submit the final grades online as well as forward an authenticated copy of these grades to the HoD for onward transmission to Academic Section as per the schedule mentioned in Academic Calendar. 8.1.5 Student Activity (LA/CA) Courses for 4th Semester B.Tech. Programmes There shall be various student activity related courses in the 4" Semester of B.Tech. Programmes as per NEP-2020, applicable for students admitted during the Academic year 2023-24 and onwards, as listed below: Sr.No. | Course Code | Title of Course Course _ Hours | Credit of Course per week 1. SA-201 National Cadet Corps 2 1 2. SA-202 National Service Scheme 2 1 3. SA-203 Yoga and Meditation 2 1 4. SA-204 Sports Activities 2 1 5. SA-205 Prayas 2 1 6. SA-206 Martial Arts 2 1 7. SA-207 Music, Dance, and Dramatics 2 1 8. SA-208 Social Service and Discipline 2 1 9. SA-209 Photography and Creative Art 2 1 The student will have the option to choose one of the above courses. The maximum 120 students will be permissible for registration through respective faculty in-charges and concerned Head of the Department/Centre in any one of the above listed courses. The final allotment of the course batch shall be decided by the Dean (Student Welfare). The aforesaid student activities will be conducted and monitored as per Time Table under the supervision of the concerned Faculty In-charge assigned for the purpose throughout the 4 semester. The continuous, mid-term & end term evaluation will be carried out based on the performance of the students by the respective Faculty In-charges associated with different activities as per applicable/existing grading system. 8.2 Grading System The grading system is designed to provide a holistic assessment of a student's performance based on both formative and summative assessments. The Institute follows absolute grading system. A student shall be awarded a letter grade in each course he/she is registered for, indicating his/her overall performance in that course. There is separate grading scheme for the students of B Arch in order to satisfy the norms issued by the CoA. The following are the general guidelines for the award of grades: Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 16 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 1. All evaluations of different components of a course announced in the course plan shall be done in terms of marks for each student 2. The marks of various components shall be added to get total marks secured on a 100-point scale w For any course, the respective table will be used to award grades corresponding to the secured marks 4. Astudent, who does not appear in the End Semester Examination for any reason, shall be awarded F grade irrespective of his/her performance in the Internal Assessment 5. A student, who fail to score at least 30% marks in the End Semester Theory Examination shall be awarded F grade irrespective of his/her overall score in the course The concerned Course Instructor/coordinator shall submit the final grades online as well as forward an authenticated copy of these grades to the HoD for onward transmission to Academic Section as per the schedule mentioned in Academic Calendar. A. Grading system for B Tech/Dual Degree Students There are eight letter grades: A, AB, B, BC, C, CD, D and F. The correspondence between letter grades, grade points (on a 10 point scale), percentage marks and academic performance is given below: Letter Grade A AB B BC Cc cD D F Grade Point 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 0 Marks % 285 <85 8275 <75 &265 <658255 | <55 &=50 <50 &245 <45 8240 | <40 Academic . Above : : Performance Outstanding Excellent Very Good Good Average Average Marginal Fail B. Grading system for B Arch Degree Students There are seven letter grades: A, AB, B, BC, C CD and F. The correspondence between letter grades, grade points (on a 10 point scale), percentage marks and academic performance is given below: Letter Grade A AB B BC Cc cD F Grade Point 10 9 8 7 6 5 0 Marks % 285 <85 &275 <75 &265 <658255 <55 &250 <50 &245 <45 Academic . Above : Performance Outstanding Excellent Very Good Good Average Average Fail As per CoA regulations the pass percentage in each course should not be less than 45%. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 17 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 8.3. Grade Point Index (GPI) The SGPI (Semester Grade Point Index) is an indicator of the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses he/she has registered during a given semester. For example, if the grades awarded to a student are G1, G,..., Gm in courses (say, m) with corresponding credits C1, C2,..., Cm, the SGPI is given by C,G, +C,G, +..+C,,G,, C,+C, +...4+C,, SGPI = Similarly, the CGPI (Cumulative Grade Point Index) indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to and including the latest completed semester/supplementary examination. It is computed in the same manner as the SGPI, considering all the courses (say, n), and is given by In case of a specific query by students/employers/others regarding conversion of CGPI into percentage marks, the formula “% Marks = 10x(CGPI)” will be adopted for notional conversion. However, the Institute shall not issue any separate certificate/document in this regard. 8.4 Improvement in CGPI A student who has passed all the requisite courses of a programme but fails to score minimum requisite CGPI for the award of degree, may be allowed to improve, on case to case basis with the approval of Chairman Senate provided the course is running in the Semester. The Dual Degree Students may be allowed to improve the CGPI in the 9tt/10th Semester. For improvement in CGPI the students shall have to: 1. appear in Supplementary Examination in the course(s) where B Tech/Dual degree student has scored D/F grade(s), provided he/she is allowed to continue in the programme as per Clauses of Section 9. Marks in Continuous Semester Assessment and Mid Semester Examination shall remain same as per the previous record. 2. Continuous Semester Assessment and Mid Semester Examination of the course (theory, practical, minor/major project, etc.), where B Tech/Dual degree student has scored D/F grade(s) and has less than 50% marks in these components. However, the student will only be allowed to register after completion of minimum residential requirement given in Clause 9.2. This registration will be allowed alongwith students of regular semester at that point of time where this course is floated (odd semester or even semester). The requests of the student to resolve any clash in Time Table and allotment of hostel will not be entertained. Marks secured by the student in Continuous Semester Assessment and End Semester Examination during this semester registration will be counted for awarding the grade. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 18 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 8.5 Supplementary Examination There shall be a Supplementary Examination every year during June-July as per the schedule mentioned in Academic Calendar. The weightage of Supplementary Examination will be same as for End Semester Examination of respective course. Following are the eligibility criteria to appear in Supplementary Examination: 1. A student who had registered for a course during the regular semester and who got F grade after appearing in the End Semester Examination. 2. A student who had registered for a course during the regular semester, but, could not appear in the End Semester Examination. 8.6 | Grade Report Card and Transcript A copy of Grade Report Card shall be issued to each student at the end of the semester. A duplicate copy, if required, can be obtained on payment of the prescribed fee (Annexure: BPP-02). Transcript contains the record of the grades obtained in each semester and all Courses, Projects and Seminars registered by a student during his/her entire Bachelor Degree Programme. It also includes the courses which have been repeated and/or replaced or passed during supplementary examination. Transcript can also be obtained on payment of the prescribed fee. The Grade Report Card and Transcript of a student can be withheld by the Institute if he/she has not paid his/her dues, or if there is a case of indiscipline pending against him/her. 9, ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR BACHELOR DEGREE B.Tech./B.Arch./Dual Degree student is required to complete successfully all prescribed courses of the approved Course Structure of concerned academic disciplineforogramme and attain a minimum prescribed CGPI. The minimum CGPI requirement for award of B Tech/B Arch/Dual degree is 5.0 with no F grade in any course. 9.1 Attendance Requirement Attendance in all classes is compulsory; therefore, all B Tech/B Arch/Dual Degree students are normally required to have full (100%) attendance in each course. A student having attendance less than 70% in a course shall not be allowed to appear in End Semester Examination of that course and will be declared Fail and awarded “F” grade in that course. However, a student having deficient attendance, less than 70%, may be given relaxation to the maximum extent of 10% under following circumstances: (i) Participation in extra-curricular and co-curricular activities or any other participation within or outside the institute duly approved and notified by Dean (SW) on the recommendation of concerned faculty in-charge. (ii) Student could not attend classes due to illness, the proof with justification need to be submitted (iii) Due to family/natural calamities or any other valid reason to justify the claim for condonation of attendance Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 19 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 9.2 Minimum Duration Requirement For Degree The following table lists the minimum residential duration allowed in the Bachelor Programmes for graduation. To satisfy the minimum residential period requirement, registration must be over consecutive semesters. Programme Minimum Residential Period B Tech 4 Years B Arch 5 Years Dual Degree 5 Years 9.3. Performance Through Carry Over System The Institute shall follow carry over system (Except for B Arch students who scores less than 45% in Architectural Design Course during any semester) for promotion of students to next semester. In case of B Arch Degree Programme a student who does not qualify Architectural Design Course even after availing the special chance (as mentioned in 6.1 (4) or supplementary examination, the student cannot register for the next semester and will have to register in the same semester in the subsequent year to complete the said Architectural Design Course. The hostel facility shall not be made available to a student after he/she completes minimum residential period of the programme. A student getting CGPI less than 4.0 for BTech/Dual degree programme and less than 4.5 for B Arch degree programme at the end of even semester (including Supplementary Examination) is to be issued advisory note for his/her improvement of performance by the concerned HoD of the Department in the beginning of odd semester. The parents/guardians of such students are to be accordingly informed that their ward is not serious in his/her studies; therefore, it shall be the sole responsibility of the student for clearing the backlog. Further, it is to be informed that no relaxation will be entertained with regard to the following: 1. Adjustment of time table slot. 2. Date sheet of Mid/End Semester examination/supplementary examination. 3. Attendance benefit. 9.4 Academic Performance Requirement for Continuation in the Programme and Award of Degree A student is required to complete the performance requirement for Degree in terms of minimum credits as mentioned in approved course curriculum of concerned programme and academic discipline. 1. The minimum CGPI for award of B Tech/B Arch Degree is 5.0 2. Incase of Dual Degree, the minimum CGPI of 5.0 for B Tech Degree is to be scored. In case of Dual Degree, all exceptions to the above conditions will be dealt with as per following: (a) If a student passes the required courses for B Tech with CGPI less than 5.0, then the student will be permitted to improve the CGPI as per the provisions under Clause 8.4. In case B Tech Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 20 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur CGPI of 5.0 or more is achieved. the student will be eligible for award of B.Tech. degree and in case the same is not achieved, no degree (B Tech or M Tech) will be awarded to the student (b) If a student passes required courses for Dual Degree Programme with B Tech CGPI of 5.0 or more but M Tech CGPI less than 6.0, the student will be permitted to improve the M Tech CGPI as per the provisions in Masters Ordinances. In case, M Tech. CGPI of 6.0 or more is achieved the student will also be eligible for award of M.Tech. degree 10. PROCEDURE FOR AWARD OF BACHELOR DEGREE A Bachelor degree programme Student shall be eligible for award of degree if he/she satisfy the academic requirements and have a good conduct during his/her stay in the institute. 10.1 Requirement for Degree A student shall be deemed to qualify for Bachelor Degree of the Institute, if he/she has 1. Passed all the prescribed courses 2. Attained the minimum required CGPI of 5.0 with no course having F grade 3. Completed the residential requirements as per Clause 9.2 4. Satisfied all the requirements specified by the concerned Department, if any 5. Satisfied all the requirements specified by the SENATE and the Ordinances In addition, the student should have paid all the dues to the Institute and Hostels. 10.2 Award of Degree A student, who completes all the academic requirements specified in Clause 9.4 and Clause 9.2, shall be eligible for the award of B Tech/B Arch Degree. Names of such students shall be recommended by the SENATE to the BoG for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree shall be awarded only after the BoG accords its approval. However, a student eligible for the award of Degree may be issued Provisional Degree Certificate before the Convocation. A student can request for issuing of such certificate(s) my submitting the request on the prescribed Performa (Annexure: BPP-02). 10.3 Termination of Programme The Programme of a student may be terminated on the recommendation of DBPC, SBPC and Dean (Academic) with the approval of Chairman, Senate if he/she is not able to achieve minimum CGPI requirement, after availing repeated supplementary examination attempts, as mentioned in Clause 9.4. However, such candidate can request for issuing appropriate certificate as per the ME/ME policy of the NEP-2020. In rare exceptional cases on the basis of recommendation of duly constituted committee, the SENATE may not recommend a student, who is found guilty of some major offence, to the BoG for the award of a degree even if he/she has satisfactorily completed all the academic requirements from time to time. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 21 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 10.4 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where any gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the BoG for the withdrawal of Degree already awarded. 11. HOLIDAYS, VACATIONS AND SEMESTER LEAVE A bachelor student shall be entitled for vacations and other leaves as per the eligibility. 11.1 Holidays and Vacations Bachelor students are entitled to avail Mid Semester breaks, winter breaks and summer vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. They are also entitled for holidays mentioned in the Academic Calendar and declared by the Institute from time to time. 11.2 Semester Leave A student is not normally allowed to withdraw from the academic programme temporarily and is expected to complete his/her studies without any break. However, for bonafide reasons and/or in exceptional circumstances, a student may be allowed to avail leave for two semesters with prior approval of Chairman, Senate on the recommendation of DBPC, SBPC and Dean (Academic). Such semester leave shall not exceed two semesters during the entire period of the academic programme (applicable to B Tech/B Arch /Dual Degree students). Except for medical reasons, such leave would not normally be sanctioned before a student has completed first year of study. In no case, the total duration of the programme, shall exceed the maximum permissible duration, as applicable. Though, a semester leave hypothetically means a leave for one semester only, but due to the fact that courses/subjects offered in odd and even semesters in particular branch of Engineering/Architecture are mutually exclusive and also there is requirement of studying the courses/subjects of a semester before allowing a student to register for the courses/subjects of next semester, so, leave for one semester will result in semester leave of two consecutive semesters in one stretch. Therefore, a student will be required to apply leave for two semesters on the prescribed performa (Annexure: BPP-05) and if approved, the student will be allowed to register for the semester (i.e. the semester in which he/she had discontinued for availing the leave) during next academic year and has to attend the regular classes. Registration fee already paid at the time of semester registration by the student shall be forfeited. However, if such leave is approved before the semester registration, the student needs not to register during the semester of leave. 11.3 Absence without Sanctioned Leave Absence without sanctioned leave for more than four weeks continuously in a semester may result in the cancellation of registration for that semester on the recommendation of the DBPC, SBPC and Dean (Academic), and approval of Chairman, Senate. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 22 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 11.4 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions A student may be permitted by the Chairman, Senate to precede to other academic institutions in India or abroad as a non-degree student so as to broaden his/her horizons and gain course-work experience. The following guidelines and procedures shall apply for this purpose: (a) A student, who satisfies the minimum eligibility conditions given below, may spend up to two regular semesters in any academic institution of repute in India or abroad with prior permission of the Chairman, Senate. (b) The semester spent as a non-degree student will be counted as a part of the time spent in the pursuit of the degree. (c) No scholarship/financial assistance shall be provided. 11.4.1. Eligibility i. Completion of 100 credits of course work ii, A minimum CGPI of 8.5 iii. There should not be any disciplinary action against the student 11.4.2 Application Procedure i. The student shall apply to Dean (Academic) through HoD of parent Department (Annexure: BPP-06) giving details of the proposed programme and shall submit a statement of purpose with sufficient information about the Institution where he/she has chosen to spend time as anon-degree student ii. The DBPC shall examine the student’s proposal to determine whether the proposed programme is of a similar nature as the programme at NIT Hamirpur, and that the student will get benefit from the exposure and the performance at the outside organization/Institute iii. On the recommendation of the DBPC, the Dean (Academic) may recommend the proposal to the Chairman, Senate for approval, with leave of absence to the student to proceed as a non-degree student to the selected Institution Any application for waiver of credits at NIT Hamirpur or transfer of credits from the other Institution shall be decided in accordance with the procedure given in section 11.4.3. 11.4.3. Transfer of Credits and Waiver in-lieu thereof Within specific guidelines, students in the Bachelor degree programs may apply for transfer of credit or waiver of courses in his/her degree requirement based on coursework taken in other institution. All courses for anticipated transfer credit and course waiver must meet the following criteria: e Courses for which candidate registering in other institution must be officially documented as Bachelor degree level courses e Courses not graded with a letter grade (A, B, etc.) are not eligible for transfer credit. Official transcripts documenting the final grade(s) must be submitted in the parent department e Courses should not be studied in the past in the degree program Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 23 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur The Transfer Credit and Course Waiver policy applies to courses taken at external institutions is as follows: i. The permission to proceed to another institution as a non-degree student does not imply that the student will automatically get a waiver from the academic and other requirements of his/her ongoing degree programme at the Institute i. On return, the student may apply for a waiver of courses from his/her program template (Annexure: BPP-07) which he/she thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the outside Institute as a non-degree student. The student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by him/her at the outside Institute as a non-degree student and other documents/material that the concerned DBPC may require for evaluation. The DBPC will consider and determine, in a manner it deems fit, the equivalent courses (credits) and/or requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in his/her degree programme at NIT Hamirpur On the recommendation of the DBPC and Dean (Academic), the Chairman, Senate may allow a student a waiver for a maximum of 40 credits against the course work completed elsewhere as a non-degree student, subject to relevant mapping of the courses iv. The grades earned at any other Institution shall be used for calculating SGPI/CGPI provided the credit earned during this period are meeting the requirements of his/her curriculum of the degree programme in parent institute. The academic credits for courses taken at other Institution may not transfer at the same numeric value as they are offered. However, in such cases, the name of course, credits earned and name of the Institution shall be mentioned in the Grade Report Card along with suitable credit mapping criterion Those students who are selected by the Institute, using prescribed rules and procedures, to proceed to any Institutional exchange programme will also be governed by the above clauses for the transfer of academic credits, waiver, etc. 12. PERMISSION FOR ATTENDING THE CONFERENCE AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE The permission for presenting the paper in the National/International conferences in India and request for financial assistance, the student has to apply in the department on the prescribed form (Annexure: BPP-08) duly endorsed by his/her mentor/Project Guide. The candidate must attach following documents along with his/her application: (a) Acceptance letter of the paper/abstract in the conference (b) First page of the paper including title of the paper with authors names (c) Proof of the conference along with organizer details and registration fee details (d) Copy of last semester result In order to ensure that only quality papers are presented in reputed conferences organized by premier Institutions/Organizations, the DBPC of the department will deliberate on all these issues and verify that the paper is accepted for oral/poster paper presentation and he/she has not availed financial assistance to Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 24 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur attend conference earlier. The student can avail this facility only once in their B Tech/B Arch programme. The recommendation of the DBPC will be sent to the Dean (Academic) for final decision/permission. Further, the reimbursement of Conference Registration Fee and Travel Expenses shall be on the submission of actual payee receipts as per the following terms and conditions: (i) Request of the candidate for financial assistance will be considered only if it is duly recommended by his/her mentor/Project Guide (ii) The financial assistance shall be only one time in the entire programme (iii) In case of joint authors only one of the author will be considered for financial assistance (iv) The candidate has to submit the copy of the paper presentation/participation certificate issued by the conference organizer (v) Permission letter issued by the office of Dean (Academic) for paper presentation in the conference and financial assistance A candidate fulfilling the above requirements will be considered for reimbursement of Conference Registration Fee and Travel Expenses to a maximum amount decided by the SENATE. The case will be forwarded by the concemed HoD to the accounts section. 13. CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE RULES Students shall conduct themselves within and outside the precincts of the Institute in a manner befitting the students of an Institute of National Importance. 13.1 Code of Conduct Each student shall conduct himself/herself in a manner befitting his/her association with an Institute. He/she is expected not to indulge in any activity, which is likely to bring down the prestige of the Institute. He/she should also show due respect and courtesy to the faculty members, administrators, officers and employees of the Institute, and good neighborly behavior to fellow students. Due attention and courtesy is to be paid to visitors to the Institute and residents of the Campus. Lack of courtesy and decorum, unbecoming conduct (both within and outside the Institute), willful damage and/or removal of Institute property or belongings of fellow students, disturbing others in their studies, adoption of unfair means during examinations, breach of rules and regulations of the Institute, noisy and unseemly behavior and similar other undesirable activities shall constitute violation of the Code of Conduct for students. In all such matters, duly constituted committee(s) shall decide upon the penalties to be imposed. Ragging in any form is strictly prohibited and considered a serious criminal offence and violation of the code of conduct. Involvement of a student in ragging may lead to his/her expulsion from the Institute. 13.2 Disciplinary Actions and Related Matter Violation of the Code of Conduct shall invite disciplinary action which may include punishment such as Reprimand, Disciplinary Probation, Fine, and Debarring from Examinations, Withdrawal of Scholarship Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 25 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur and/or Placement Services, Withholding of Grades and/or Degrees, Debarring from Residency, Cancellation of Registration of the Semester and even Expulsion from the Institute. For indiscipline of a student in a class, the course coordinator/teacher may i. Debar him from few subsequent classes for which he shall not be liable to get relaxation in attendance/favourable consideration in mercy appeal, and ii. Report the matter to Dean (Student Welfare) for necessary disciplinary action. 13.3 Unfair Means The faculty member/invigilator/flying squad/Examination Cell shall bring cases of unfair means on a prescribed performa (Annexure: BPP-09) to the notice of the Dean (Academic) along with all the supporting evidences. Unfair means shall comprise of following: Copying from the papers/mobile/electronic gadgets, or materials in the possession of the student Possession of the relevant material Gross indiscipline in examination hall Malpractices in Examination Hall observed by the invigilator leading to breach of the sanctity of the examination All such cases shall be looked into by an Unfair Means Committee (UMC) consisting of the following: 1. |Dean (Academic) Chairperson 2. |Dean (Student Welfare) Member 3. | Chairperson, SBPC Member 4. | Chairperson, SMPC Member 5. |Chairperson, SDPC Member 6. | Concerned HoD Member 7. |PI/FI (Training & Placement) Member 8. | Associate Dean (Examination) Member 9, | Assistant Registrar (Academic Section) Secretary Dean (Academic) shall propose the UMC for approval/nomination of the Chairman, Senate. The tenure of SENATE Nominees shall be two years from the date of such nomination made by Chairman, Senate. UMC shall meet within reasonable time after declaration of Semester/Supplementary Examination result. The Committee shall give opportunity to the student concerned and recommend the punishment. The UMC may decide the level of punishment as deemed suitable, on case to case basis and ensure that consistency is maintained while handling similar cases.The recommendations of the UMC shall be implemented after getting the approval of the Chairman, Senate/Director. A student who feels aggrieved with the punishment awarded may, however, appeal to the Chairman, Senate stating clearly the case and explaining his/her position for seeking reconsideration of the decision. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 26 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur 13.4 Stay at Hostel The Dean (Student Welfare), Chief Warden, Warden of a Hostel has the power to reprimand, impose fine or take any other suitable measure against a resident who violates either the Code of Conduct or Rules and Regulations pertaining to the Hostels. Any major violation of the Code of Conduct by an individual or by a group of students can be referred by the authorities to a Board of Discipline (BoD). Constitution of BoD shall be as under: 1. |Dean (Student Welfare) Chairperson 2. | One Faculty (to be Nominated by the Director) Member 3. | PI/FI (Training & Placement) Member 4. | Concerned HoD Member 5. | Concerned Warden Member 6. | Associate Dean (Hostel Activity and Discipline) Member 7. |Assistant Registrar (Student Welfare Section) Secretary A student, teacher or other functionary of the Institute can report case of misconduct to this Committee for consideration. Further, in very exceptional circumstances, the Director may appoint a special committee to investigate and/or recommend appropriate action for any act of gross indiscipline involving an individual or a number of students, which, in his/her view, may tarnish the image of the Institute. The recommendation for any action, including expulsion of a student from the Institute, shall be referred to the SENATE for its final decision. 13.5 Appeal Against Termination A student whose programme is terminated/cancelled on account of inadequate academic performance or otherwise has the right to appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration through DBPC and SBPC. While making the appeal on the prescribed performa (Annexure: BPP-10), he/she is expected to give reasons for his/her poor academic performance and/or to explain why his/her position merits reconsideration. The SENATE shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. However, the Chairman, Senate may not entertain any further appeal for review unless substantial additional information is brought to his/her notice. The SENATE normally shall not entertain the appeal more than two times from the same student. 14. AWARD OF STIPENDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS A number of Stipends, Scholarships, Endowment Scholarships/Fellowships, etc. are awarded to the undergraduate students according to the rules and procedures laid down by the awarding agencies and/or Institute from time to time. These Scholarships, etc. shall be liable to be withdrawn, partially or wholly, in case of misconduct, deliberate concealment of material, facts and/or giving false information. Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes 27 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur A student leaving the Institute on his/her own accord without completing the programme of study may be required to refund the amount of Scholarship, etc. received during the Academic Session in which he/she leaves the Institute. 15. AWARD OF PRIZES AND MEDALS To promote and recognize academic excellence, constructive leadership and overall growth and development of students, the SENATE may award a number of Prizes and Medals, established by the Institute on its own or through endowments/grants made by donors, with the approval of the BoG The SENATE shall determine the general policy regarding recommendations for the award of different types of Prizes and Medals available to Institute students. The detailed norms and conditions for the award of various Prizes and Medals (contained in the brochure entitled “Rules and Procedures for Prizes and Medals’ of the Institute) shall be framed by the SENATE from time to time. 16. INTERPRETATION OF CONTENTS OF BACHELORS ORDINANCES 16.1 General These Ordinances shall be in force immediately after the approval of the SENATE/BoG NIT Hamirpur. Notwithstanding anything contained in these Ordinances, all categories of students/candidates shall be governed by the Rules & Regulations framed by the SENATE in this behalf and in force from time to time. Also, the SENATE reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements and rules pertaining to its Bachelor Degree Programmes. 16.2 Interpretations Any doubt or dispute arising about the interpretations of the Rules & Regulations shall be referred to the Chairman, Senate whose decision shall be the final. 16.3 Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases The procedures and requirements stated in these Ordinances, other than those in Clauses covering Eligibility, Admissions and Academic/Programme Requirements may be waived in special circumstances by the Chairman, Senate on the recommendation of the DBPC, SBPC and Dean (Academic). All such exceptions shall be reported to the SENATE for ratification. 16.4 Jurisdiction These ordinances set out the procedure and requirements of the B Tech/B Arch/Dual Degree programmes of study that fall under the jurisdiction of the SENATE, NIT Hamirpur. Further, any legal dispute arising from this set of Regulations shall be limited to the legal jurisdiction determined by the location of the Institute and not that of any other parties. Ordinan GeseboreBachehedaiecephieadaaos 23 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur asia vletPrel dear siege wary (f.9.) — 177 005 (AIR) ( FIRea Uo Mat Harada @ ded vH wea vec w We | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) {An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure-BP#l Bachelor Programmes Bachelor of Technology (B Tech): 4 Years (8 Semesters) Branch Department/Centre Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering (DoCHE) Civil Engineering Civil Engineering (DoCE) Computer Science & Engineering Computer Science & Engineering (DoCSE) Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering (DoEE) Electronics & Communication Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering (DoECE) Mathematics and Computing Mathematics and Scientific Computing (DoMSC) Materials Science & Engineering Material Science & Engineering (DoMSE) Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering (DoME) Engineering Physics Physics and Photonics Science (DoPPS) Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.): 5 Years (10 Semesters) Branch Department Architecture Architecture (DoArch) Dual Degree Programmes Dual Degree (B Tech & M Tech): 5 Years (10 Semesters) Branch Department Computer Science & Engineering Computer Science & Engineering (DoCSE) Electronics & Communication Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering (DoECE) Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wsdia vtetfrel dear efiege sage (fe.4-) — 177 005 (HIRd) [ FRea Uo Ret Hareta S ded vo wesla wed oT We | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-01 Application for Academic Matter Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick v appropriate) | B Tech /B Arch / Dual Degree Department Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: Description of the Request/Problem Date: Signature of the Student For Official Use Application Received On: Signature of Dealing Assistant (Department) Remarks/Decision of HoD Signature of HoD Date: Forwarded for Necessary Action (Convener DBPC / Dealing Assistant / ) Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes Il National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wera veatRrel dean erg ergy (fH) — 177 005 (IRA) ( ARea Uren Rat darcy @ ded vo wela ved wr Gers | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Application for Issuing Certificates/Documents Annexure: BPP-02 Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B Tech/B Arch / Dual Degree Department Semester Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: Certificate (s)/Document(s) Required (tick “ appropriate) = Bona-fide Certificate (Mention Semester Number(s) = Attested/erified Copy of Semester Result = Duplicate Semester Grade Report Card [Copy of FIR/Police Complain for Loss] = No Objection Certificate = Character Certificate = Migration Certificate = Transcript = Any Other (give Description) Date: Signature of the Student For Official Use Recommendation of Department Signature of HoD Date: Application Forwarded to:: AR/DR (Academic Section) Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes Il] National Institute of Technology Hamirpur waste vlethrel dear siege wiege (f8.9.) — 177 005 (ATR) [ aa Uo fen wares } dea we NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECH ws qed ST UIT | NOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-03 Clause 5.3 Application for Withdrawal of Admission Name of Student Roll Number Department Programme (tick “ appropriate) B Tech/B Arch / Dual Degree Present Semester Mobile and Email (of the Student) Mobile: Email: Address Mobile (of Parent/Guardian) Reasons of Withdrawal Declaration | would like to withdraw my admission from NIT Hamirpur. | request to refund the fee/dues paid as per the Institute refund rules. Date: Signature of the Student Consent of Parent/Guardian Signature of Parent/Guardian Date: For Official Use Recommendation of Department Signature of Convener DBPC Date: Signature of HoD Date: Application Received On: Signature of Dealing Assistant (Academic Section) Recommended by Dean (Academic) Approved by Chairman Senate Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wssla wtetRrat dean siege egy (f8.4-) — 177 005 (HIRAI) ( FIR Uren Rent area S ded We US Ae oT Ue | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-04 Clause: 6.4 Application for Exiting the Programme under Multiple Entry/Multiple Exit policy of NEP-2020 Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B Tech/B Arch / Dual Degree Department Semester CGPI and Credits earned Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: Reasons for Exiting the Programme Signature of the Parents/guardian Signature of the Student For Official Use Recommendation of Department Signature of HoD (Minutes of the DBPC meeting along with recommendation for eligibility of the candidate in getting appropriate certificate as per clause 7.4) Date: Recommendation by Chairperson, SBPC Forwarded to: Office of Dean (Academic) Recommendation by Dean (Academic) Approved by Chairman Senate Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes Vv National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wsfra wletfray Wear BARS (f8.4.) — 177 005 (IRA) ( FIR Uren Rent area S ded We US Ae oT Ue | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-05 Clause 11.2 Application for Semester Leave Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B.Tech. / B.Arch. / Dual Degree Department Previous Registration Detail Semester: Date: Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: Reasons for Semester Leave Period of Leave (Semesters.......... ) | Semester and Semester. Declaration | would like to avail leave during the above mentioned period. | understand that the registration fee already paid for present semester shall be forfeited as per the Institute rules. Date: Signature of the Student Recommendation / Endorsement of Parent/Guardian Signature of Parent/Guardian Date: For Official Use Recommendation of Department Date of DBPC Meeting (held for Discussion of Case): Signature of Convener DBPC Signature of HoD Date: Date: Forwarded to Chairperson SBPC Minutes of SBPC Meeting (to be enclosed): Signature of Chairperson, SBPC Signature of Dean (Academic) Date: Date: Approved by - Chairman, Senate Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes VI National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wa vlathral der srg ergy (f8.4.) — 177 005 (AIR) ( Aa Vor Ren dares S ded ve US aed oT WRI | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-06 Clause: 11.4.2 Application for Proceeding as Non-Degree Student Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B.Tech. / B.Arch. / Dual Degree Department Previous Registration Detail Semester: Date: Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: CGPI and Credit Earned Period of Leave ......... (Semesters) | From to Declaration | would like to join the Non-Degree Students Programme during the above mentioned period att ...............c:cccesceeeeeeeeeeeeees | understand that the registration fee if already paid for present semester shall be forfeited as per the Institute rules | hereby submit that | am not reprimanded, under disciplinary probation or expelled from the institute etc. | submit that | have read and understood the rules which will be applicable to me during this period | also submit that | will register for the course work in the institute where | am proceeding as a non-degree student | will not have any claim for financial assistance from parent institute | understand that the credits earned during as a non-degree student shall be included for CGPI calculation and Credit Report Card, if approved by the parent department Date: Signature of the Student Recommendation / Endorsement of Parent/Guardian Signature of Parent/Guardian Date: For Official Use Recommendation of Department Date of DBPC Meeting (held for Discussion of Case): Signature of Convener DBPC Signature of HoD Date: Date: Forwarded to: Office of Dean (Academic) Signature of Dean (Academic) Date: Approved by- Chairman, Senate Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes VII National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wa dlathrel dear sige BARGE (R-) — 177 005 (AA) ( ARG Uren Ren Fara S ced ve Usa ved oT WM | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-07 Clause 11.4.3 Transfer Credit/Waiver Request Form Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B.Tech. / B.Arch. / Dual Degree Department Registration Details before proceeding for Non-Degree Semester: Date: Students Programme Permission Letter No. Dated: Period of Leave From to Name of Institution as Non-Degree Student Course Code Course Name Semester/Year Grade For Official Use Recommendation of Department Date of DBPC Meeting (held for Discussion of Case): (Syllabus of courses studied during Non-Degree Students Programme to be submitted by the candidate for Transfer Credit/Waiver. Signature of Convener DBPC Signature of HoD Date: Date: Forwarded to Chairperson SBPC: Date of SBPC Meeting (Minutes of the Meeting to be enclosed): Signature of Chairperson, SBPC Signature of Dean (Academic) Date: Date: Approved by- Chairman, Senate Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes VII National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wea wenthret dena siege siege (fe.4.) — 177 005 (IKd) { FRa Uren Rent dara & ded we usta aed GT Ue | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-08 Clause 12 Application for Financial Assistance to Attend Conference To The Dean (Academic) Sir, Kindly grant me financial assistance and leave from............ (0 re (0) re days as | have to attend the International/National Conference............ccccccccccesseetessreseseseseeeesteseesenettteenaenes to be A> | ree for paper/ooster presentation. Further, it is submitted that | have not availed any financial assistance facility of the institute earlier. (The proof of acceptance of paper/poster attached). Yours Obediently, (Signature) Name: Registration Number: Date: Recommended by: Mentor/Project Guide Forwarded by: | Convener, DBPC HoD Approved by: Dean (Academic) To be recorded in Departmental Bachelor Student File Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes IX National Institute of Technology Hamirpur zssra vleatfrey axa sarge (f8.9.) — 177 005 (AINA) { FRa Uren Rat Hares S ded vH wea qed oT Wer | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-09 Clause 13.3 Form for Reporting Cases Regarding Use of Unfair-Means Note: e One form should be used for one case only. e Please send one question paper along with the case(s) (A) To be filled in by the Instructor/Invigilator(s)/Member(s) of Observer Committee: 1. Name of Examination 1 eevee ceeeeteeeentaeesetteeentneeeennteseneiteeenteees 2. Name of student 1 eeeucteecesteeeesnteceeceteenceeeeenteeesntanesenees 3. Registration No. Lee ceeeeeeeeeeeceecesneeeeeeecateeeeeeceetateeeseees 4. Programme/Branch Lecce ceeeeeaeeeeeeeeneeaeeeescnseeeeeeeeesteeeeeenes 5. Room No. cecceeceeeeeuesaeseaeecsteeeeseeeateeneenntenteeseeaes Subject Code Subject Name 6. Subject/ Paper in which the student is suspected or reported to have used or attempted to use unfair means or shown disorderly conduct. 7. Date and time of incident 1 be ceeceeeeceeeauseaeecstenteseteuteeneenstenteeseeaes 8. Type of Unfair Means i. Copying from the paper/material ii. Possessing materials leading to Unfair-means iii. Copying from the answer booklet of neighbouring student iv. Misbehaved with invigilator Date... Signature and Full Name of the Instructor/Invigilator(s)/Member(s) of Observer Committee Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes National Institute of Technology Hamirpur (B) Student’s Statement: | have read the report of the Instructor/Invigilator(s)/Member(s) of Observer Committee made against me as given in column A and submit the following statements: (i) | undertake that this statement has been given by me under no pressure or fear. (ii) Do you agree with the report of the Instructor/Invigilator(s\/Member(s) of Observer Committee made against you? Yes/No (iii) If you agree with the report, then: (a) | What explanation have you to offer for possessing/using the unfair-means or for your misconduct/disorderly conduct as mentioned in the report? (b) Have any other thing to say, by way of self-defence or clarification? (iv) If you do not agree with the report then give your explanation, if any, in your defence against the report of the Instructor/Invigilator(s)/Member(s) of Observer Committee. (Signature of Student) (C) Statement of Witness, if any: Statement of Witness, if any, in case the student denies the allegations of the Instructor/Invigilator(s)/Member(s) of Observer Committee or refuses to give his/her statement on the spot or runs away from the examination hall without giving his/her statement. Name and Signature of Witness Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XI National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wsla wethral dear s4Rg aaege (fe.4.) — 177 005 (AIR) [ aa wer Ren Haray G ded ve wey qed OT WT | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure: BPP-10 Clause 13.5 Application for Mercy Appeal against Termination Name of Student Roll Number Programme (tick “ appropriate) B Tech/ B Arch/ Dual Degree Department Semester Mobile and Email Mobile: Email: Reasons of Mercy (attach Proof) Date: Signature of the Student Recommendation of the Convener, DBPC: Remarks of HoD: Signature with date Signature with date Observations of Chairperson, SBPC: Decision of Chairman, Senate Recorded in Academic Section Signature with date Signature with date Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XI National Institute of Technology Hamirpur asia vathret dent SRG sage (fe.4.) — 177 005 (AIRd) [ ARa ero en Hares S ded vo USI qed ST WMA | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Annexure-RW General Guidelines for Project Report Writing Format of Project Report 1. Title Pages =" Outer title page =" Inner title page =" Copyright (on reverse side of inner title page) 2. Preliminary Pages (page i, ii, iii, ...) =" Candidate’s declaration "= Acknowledgements =" Abstract =» Contents "= List of figures "=" List of tables "=" List of abbreviations "= List of symbols 3. Main body pages (1, 2, 3, ...) =" Introduction = Literature Review "= Design, Setup and Methodology "= Results and Discussion =" Conclusions and Scope for Future Work =" Research Publications, if any. =" References =" Appendices Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XIII National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Description of Different Sections of a project General guidelines ¥ Times New Roman font of size 12 must be followed consistently throughout the project report ¥ 1% space throughout the text on both side of the paper ¥ Margins: Left - 38 mm, Right - 25 mm, Top -— 25mm, Bottom -— 25mm ¥Y Paper size: A4 ¥ Units and symbols should conform to the international system of units ¥Y Avoid the use of jargon, nouns as adjectives, split infinitives, improper matching of subjects and verbs, changes of tense in mid- paragraph and redundancy and verbosity. More errors in spelling or typography leave an impression of carelessness on the examiners Abstract This section will contain statement of the problem, methods of investigation, major findings and main conclusion. Introduction This chapter will contain general introduction, scope of the work, objective of the study and chapter outline. Literature Review This chapter will contain a critical review of the literature, pertinent theory, experiment and the importance of the chosen problem. Design, Setup and Methodology The reporting on design, setup and methodology shall be presented in one or more chapters with appropriate chapter titles. Due importance shall be given to experimental setups, procedures adopted, techniques developed, methodologies developed and adopted. Results and Discussions ¥Y Brief description of the methodology, primarily the experimental design ¥Y The text should describe the results ¥Y The figure and table legends contains o Short title Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XIV National Institute of Technology Hamirpur o Description of the symbols, if applicable o Description of the statistics used, if applicable ¥ The figure or table and their legend should appear on the same page ¥Y Avoid repeating a description of the results - keep the description of the results in the body of the results section and not in the figure or table legend ¥Y Emphasize the most important contributions of the project. The discussion must not merely recapitulate results or review the literature ¥Y It is essential to discuss the contribution of the project in relationship to the literature and to assess the significance of the findings Conclusions This chapter contains the major findings, main conclusions and future scope, if any. References There must be only one reference list for the entire project report in order of citation in the body of project report. Preferably use IEEE format for references. Appendices This section may contain tables and figures of data that are necessary to show but that are not part of the project report. Auxiliary Format Binding The evaluation copies of the project report may be spiral bound or soft bound. The final hard bound copies to be submitted after the oral examination will be accepted during the submission of project report with the following specification: Front and Back Covers’ Colour White Over Lettering Front: Black colour Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XV National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Title of the Project B. Tech. Project By Name of the Candidate(s) (Registration Number: Candidate’s Registration Number) Name of the Department NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR Hamirpur (Himachal Pradesh) — 177 005, India Month, Year Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XVI National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Title of the Project A Project Submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the degree of Bachelor of Technology by Name of the Candidate(s) (Registration Number: Candidate’s Registration Number) Under the guidance of Dr. Guide’s Name Name of the Department NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR Hamirpur (Himachal Pradesh) — 177 005 Month, Year Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XVII National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Copyright © NIT HAMIRPUR (HP), INDIA, Year Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XVII National Institute of Technology Hamirpur wea wentRrel dean siege sarge (fe.4.) — 177 005 (AIRa) [ FRa Gror Ret Harada S ded YH US Ae wT Geers | NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAMIRPUR HAMIRPUR (H.P.) - 177 005 (INDIA) [An Institute of National Importance under Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya)] Candidate’s Declaration We hereby certify that the work which is being presented in the project report titled “Title of Project” in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the Degree of Bachelor of Technology and submitted in the “Name of the Department”, National Institute of Technology Hamirpur, is an authentic record of our own work carried out during a period from “Starting Month Starting Year to End_Month End_Year” under the guidance of “Guide’s Name, Guide’s Designation, Name of the Department”, National Institute of Technology Hamirpur. The matter presented in this project report has not been submitted by me for the award of any other degree of this or any other Institute/University. Sd/- (Name of the Candidate(s)) This is to certify that the above statement made by the candidate is correct to the best of my knowledge. Date: Sd/- (Guide’s Name) Guide’s Designation The Project Viva- Voce Examination has been held on o....... eee Signature of Guide(s) Signature of Head of Department Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XIX National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Ordinances for Bachelors Programmes XX 